SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oqeGhgbEwr0
YOUTUBE: CNBC Television — Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell speaks at Harvard University — 3/30/2026

Kind: captions
Language: en
Chair Powell's path to the pinnacle of
economic policy was not paved with
mathematical modeling in an economics
doctoral program, but rather with a deep
study of institutions and laws.
Raised in Washington DC, he attended
Princeton University where he earned a
bachelor of arts in politics in 1975.
He then attended Georgetown University
Law Center. While earning his law
degree, he also served as editor in
chief of the Georgetown Law Journal, one
of the world's most influential and
prestigious legal publications.
He then started a career of
extraordinary impact and breath. He
distinguished himself first in the
private sector, working in investment
banking and private equity, notably as a
partner at the Carile Group, while
repeatedly answering the call for public
service.
He served with distinction as assistant
secretary and then under secretary of
the treasury under President George HW
Bush. In 2012, he returned to public
service as a member of the Federal
Reserve Board of Governors. His
nomination to serve as chair in 2018 by
President Donald Trump and then his
renomination to serve as chair by
President Joe Biden in 2021 stand as
testaments to his bipartisanship.
Chair Powell approaches economic
stewardship with a philosophy grounded
in empirical evidence, institutional
humility, collaboration, and public
service. Like the greatest Fed chairs in
our history, Paul Vulker, Ben Bernani,
Chair Powell advances the interests of
our nation and not his own, sometimes at
great personal cost.
We are immensely privileged to have him
share his insights today. Please join me
in warmly welcoming the chair of the
board of governors of the Federal
Reserve system, Jerome Powell.
Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
So I'd like to start at the beginning of
your career. You studied politics and
then law and then eventually pivoted
from that to public service. Were you
thinking about public service and
economic policym at the start or did all
of that come as a surprise later and how
did you decide to make the pivot when
you were in the middle of your career?
Let me start by saying David, thank you
so much for having me and uh thank all
of you for being here today. It's great
to be here. I've been looking forward to
this. Yeah. So, um I did I took macro
and micro my freshman year. Uh and it
wasn't as interesting to me at that age
uh than some other things. So, I wound
up majoring in politics actually spe
specializing in Africa. It's fair to say
that my freshman major was acoustic
guitar. Uh my parents gave me a Martin
D35 for high school graduation. And they
must have regretted that because that's
what I was really working on mostly. But
I did finally um figure out what I
wanted to do. And I I when I graduated
from college, I really had no plan. But
I did have one thought and that is to
have a career in the private sector, but
also to do public service
intermittently. And I was thinking about
people like George Schultz uh who was a
famous economic jobs and uh and others
who had who had done those sorts of
things. And I I grew up in Washington
DC. My parents were not my my dad had
fought in the in World War II and he had
been a US attorney, but they weren't
people who were terribly plugged in
politically. I was very interested
though in those years in public policy
and in trying to create a life that was
partly private sector and partly public
sector. And amazingly enough, that's
kind of what happened.
&gt;&gt; Great. So now jumping right to the
present, we talk about the Fed as a
unitary entity, but of course the Fed is
led by the Federal Open Market
Committee. There are 12 voting members.
You, despite being chair, only have one
vote. And in normal times, there's a lot
of consensus. Everyone's in agreement.
Lately, there's been some disagreement.
There's been votes to keep interest
rates the same, but some members of the
FOMC have decided instead to vote to
decrease interest rates. How does the
disagreement on the FOMC make your job
harder as you describe the path of
economic policy going forward?
&gt;&gt; You know, I don't think of it as making
my job harder. Uh I I think it's and
I've found throughout my career that um
when you have a really difficult
problem, it helps to hear from all
sides. And in a way, I for example, when
I was a private equity investor and I
was looking at at at at supporting a
transaction that I wanted to do, I
really wanted to hear from the smartest
people. Tell me why it's a bad deal.
Tell me now before we do it. And I I
just think you you you don't really know
how much you believe in something until
you've had somebody really try to take
it apart. So I I welcome that at the
FOMC and at the Fed generally. Um and I
think it helps us make better decisions.
The Fed has had a tradition of of go of
governors not dissenting, but that's
really not typical of other major
central banks where there's more
dissenting or they're different. Depends
on the central bank. And I I to me what
matters is is it a descent thoughtful?
Is it helpful? Does it help? Does it
express a point of view? Can can you
stand behind it and say, "Yeah, that's
that's very thoughtful." And that that
kind of a thing is not is not bad. And
it doesn't hurt with communications. You
know, I I think a situation like the
present situation where, you know,
there's uh there's sort of downside risk
to the labor market, which suggests keep
rates low, but there's upside risk to
inflation, which suggests maybe don't
keep rates low. you've got tension
between the two objectives. And I think
to try to expect unonymity at a time
like that where it's really quite
historically challenging, it would
almost be misleading to be really
confident in in which way that should
go. In fact, it's been said that uh uh
confidence is what you feel before you
really understand the problem.
&gt;&gt; Okay, let's turn to the Fed's balance
sheet. In 2008, 2009, that great
financial crisis, there was a massive
expansion in the Fed's balance sheet.
And then again in 2020 under your
leadership, there was a second vast
expansion in the Fed's balance sheet to
address these two economic and financial
crises. The balance sheet has since come
down a bit, but it still sits at over $6
trillion.
So I'd like to hear your views on how
efficacious this vast bond buying
program has been both in the 2008 and
then again in the 2020 episode and also
hear your reaction to the critics who
say that the Fed has become too big a
player in the bond market. The Fed has
become too influential. There's been a
muddying of as according to the critics
of monetary policy and fiscal policy. Do
they have a point or are they wrong?
So I think the place to start with that
is to the the the problem that people
were struggling with from about 2008 to
2022 let's say in central banking
everywhere in the world with is once
you've cut interest rates to zero. Do
you have anything else you can do? Let's
say you cut interest rates to zero and
the economy is still clearly not not
flourishing and it wants more it wants
more support. So do you just say well
we're done. We're out. We're out of uh
of ideas here. And there were two ideas
that that that were followed in the
global financial crisis. One of which
was to buy assets, longerterm assets.
And what you're doing there is you're
buying longer term government guaranteed
securities which would hold down longer
term rates and that should stimulate the
economy or also forward guidance which
would tend to hold down forward rates as
well or just rates generally. So we did
those two things rather than do nothing.
And I think in the first instance they
were both both e efforts were successful
at restoring market function and at
restoring financial stability. At the
beginning of the of the global financial
crisis and the pandemic we had massive
problems of market function. They were
solved. I think the question getting to
your question David of the macroeconomic
effects is a much more uh much less
certain question. I don't think there is
an accepted answer, but but I would just
say there's a oceanic quantity of of
research on this and overall it tends to
find that that buying long-term assets
does does lower interest rates and does
provide some support for economic
activity. Um, and I I guess I'd be in
the camp of thinking that there's some
something in that. Uh, but it's hard to
quantify it. And I think you know in
different different people have
different views on how much those those
effects could be. The other side of it
is you know QE is thought by the critics
to to risk all kinds of other things. So
for example you could buy too much uh of
the treasury market and it would stop
functioning well. We have not seen that
here. At the very beginning uh there was
a thought that it would be inflationary.
We have not seen that or that it would
that it would threaten financial
stability or even create inequality. So,
we haven't really seen the the downside
risks. Um, at the same time, I'll the
last thing I'll say is I remember u
before I took over as chair thinking I
I'll I'll almost certainly never have to
do quantitative easing. So, what's
what's that expression? Man plans and
God laughs. Something like that. So, it
just, you know, the the the pandemic
came around and and we needed to do a
lot of asset purchases in a big hurry
and we did. So far, no no Treasury
Department has ever said, "Stop doing
that. You're supporting the economy too
much." Maybe that'll happen someday, but
hasn't happened yet. Great. So, let's
talk about the dynamics of inflation
since the spike in 2022. Inflation has
been coming down since then, but it
still hasn't reached its 2% target. Some
have argued that that last mile is
extremely difficult and to obtain that
we will need a recession. Others have
argued that you've gotten us very close
and you'll get us the rest of the way.
Um, are you concerned about the time
duration of the path from the high
inflation of 2022 back to target? It's
taken time. We're not there yet.
Is that a destination we'll reach or are
you concerned that the last mile will
prove very difficult? So, we will reach
uh the FOMC is and will continue to be
committed to getting inflation back to
2% on a sustained basis. That's that's
the place to start. Um, so I feel like
we had we had pretty much gotten there
at the end of 2024
um against the uh predictions of almost
the entire economics profession. Um when
we raised rates a lot and very quickly
in 2022
um 100% essentially of economists were
forecasting a recession. We didn't have
one actually. We had 23 and 24 were both
very strong years as the supply side
healed and as our our higher rates had
some effect on inflation. So by by 2024
you had the economy growing at 2 and a
half% you had inflation in in the two
plus a few tenths on a 12-month basis by
the end of the year. And um you had the
employment market you still had the
labor market at at essentially full
employment. So I would call that a soft
landing. we had it there. Then since
then we we've had to face a much smaller
source of inflation which is that the
tariff inflation is vi is visible and we
think it's really just a one-time price
increase. That's been our thinking since
the beginning. Right now we think it's
adding somewhere between a half and a
full percentage point to inflation but
that's that's a much smaller thing than
than we saw during the the pandemic
inflation. and um you know now and of
course now we're facing events in the
Middle East which will certainly affect
uh gas prices and and uh we're we feel
like our policies in in a good place for
us to wait and see how that turns out.
&gt;&gt; Great. So let me turn to the current
crisis in the Middle East and the effect
on energy prices. Indeed, this classroom
is familiar with that question from the
last problem set where we asked, "How
would you advise the Fed to respond to
the rising price of oil?" And we teach
that when there's a demand shock, it's a
pretty natural set of recommendations
that emerge for the Fed. But when
there's a supply shock like this energy
price shock, there's trade-offs that the
Fed has to juggle. How do you make those
trade-offs in general? And how do you
make those trade-offs in this particular
instance? And can you help everyone with
their pieces?
&gt;&gt; Well, maybe they should tell me.
&gt;&gt; Um, sure. So, it's it's you start with
what you said. Um, you know, our tools
work on demand. Higher rates will tend
to moderate demand. Lower rates will
tend to stimulate demand. And when you
have a supply shock, we our our tool
doesn't have meaningful shorter term
effects on supply. So, uh, so when you
have a supply shock, the first question
is do you respond to it? And the the
classic question has been around energy
uh just in general. Not really speaking
about the current situation although
I'll get to that I guess but uh you know
energy shocks have tended to come and go
pretty quickly. Monetary policy works
with long and variable lags famously.
And so by the time the effects of of a
tightening in monetary policy take
effect, uh, you know, the the oil price
shock is probably long gone and you're
you you're weighing on the economy at a
time when it's not appropriate. So the
tendency is to look through any kind of
a supply shock. But a critical essential
aspect of that is you have to have to
carefully monitor inflation expectations
because you can have a series of these
supply shocks and that can lead you know
the public generally businesses price
setters households lead them to start
expecting higher inflation over time.
Why wouldn't they? At the end of a
certain number of years the inflation is
now just just higher and that can
happen. So you monitor that very very
carefully. Also in the current
situation, you have to be mindful of the
whole broader context. And the broader
context is we're still, you know, we've
been coming down close to 2% post
pandemic, but we've never actually, you
know, gotten right and stayed at 2%. So,
it's been a while. Um, uh, and we're
we're very mindful of that fact.
inflation expectations do appear to be
well anchored beyond the short term, but
nonetheless, it's something as we we
will eventually maybe face the question
of what to do here. We're not really
facing it yet because we don't know what
what the economic effects will be, but
we'll certainly be mindful of that
broader context when we make that
decision.
&gt;&gt; Great.
You've been a powerful and vigorous
defender of the independence of the Fed
with respect to monetary policy. You've
also been collaborative with
administrations with respect to
financial regulation. So under President
Biden, you worked for or you
collaborated in a program of increasing
regulation. Under President Trump,
you've worked together to reduce
regulation. So on the one hand, we've
got an independent Fed with respect to
monetary policy and on the other hand,
we have a collaborative Fed with respect
to financial regulation. I don't think
there's a tension there, but can you
explain to us the two different
approaches and how you understand them?
&gt;&gt; Yes. So, um, start with monetary policy.
You know, I think there's, um, pretty
broad consensus in both political
parties on both sides of Capitol Hill.
And our oversight, by the way, is is
Congress, not the administration, but
pretty broad agreement that on monetary
policy, the Fed needs to be fully
politically independent, not reactive to
political uh things at all. We just need
to do our job and stick to our knitting.
Regulation is a little bit different
especially since DoddFrank where the
DoddFrank act created something called
the vice chair for supervision who has a
specific statutory assignment which is
to oversee all of supervision and also
set the agenda for regulation. So the
vice chair for supervision if if she
wants to propose a change in for example
the the Basel 3 Accords as implemented
in the United States she has to bring
that to the board of governors which is
the seven governors uh and vote for it
but she has full control over over
supervision. So as chair, you know, the
the whole the whole idea is is to be
non-political and not, you know, never
working for or against any political
party or individual or never even
considering things like that. So I I
think the way the law works is the chair
should allow the vice chair for
supervision to carry out the the the
role that Congress has assigned to that
person by statute. And that's what that
is. So you'll see and you know that the
two parties really have a big difference
on regulation now. So I like to think
that the chair should always be someone
who is working to without regard to
political and should be therefore a
person who can be reappointed by either
side. That's always been the case has
been you know Ben Bernani was
reappointed. I was reappointed. And I
think it's it's it's a good test of the
Fed's nonpartisanship that that your
appeal is really bipartisan. I think
that's that's a critical thing. So if
you're going to if I were to try to
impose my personal views on regulation
that that really wouldn't work. So I
think there's there's um I don't want to
say difference but there's we any chair
needs to let the vice chair for
supervision take the lead on those
issues and then I'm another voter is
what I am.
&gt;&gt; Great. So let's talk about DoddFrank and
the reforms to the financial system.
2008 was a terrible crisis and there
were many efforts made in the years
afterwards to tighten the bolts and
create a safer financial system less
prone to these kinds of cataclysmic
events. But today we look out at the
world and we see lots of threats both
inside the formal banking system that
you regulate and in the non-bank
financial system which is lightly or not
at all regulated. So I I wanted to have
your thoughts on whether we're in a
position of relative safety after all
the DoddFrank and other reforms
following the 2008 financial crisis or
whether the new threats actually have
brought us to another period of concern.
And just to illustrate with a couple
examples, inside the banking system,
there's commercial real estate that has
fallen in value that affects both the
banking system and non-financial instit
uh non-banking financial institutions.
We have the private credit market and a
very active debate about its health. We
have concerns about cyber security in
the age of AI. Do you worry that another
financial crisis looms out there? Of
course there's always a possibility but
is it something that's a issue of high
alert or do you feel that we're putting
all the pieces in the right places? You
know after the global financial crisis
um we actually started a new division
called the division of financial
stability and their job is to be you
know sort of the the watchers of all
financial stability issues all the time.
So we don't we're not the old system was
a crisis arrives we get the team
together and we battle the crisis. This
is much more of an ongoing monitoring
thing with a framework that can be
checked. So I would say uh after the
global financial crisis which happened
when you all were extremely young um we
uh with between DoddFrank and and the
Basel agreements we pretty dramatically
raised the amount of capital and
liquidity uh that that the largest firms
and and other banks banks h have and I
think that's been a good thing. I think
they're also much um sort of more
transparent and more aware of their
risks and that kind of thing. So I think
we've significantly hardened the system
against the kinds of things that happen
in the global financial crisis where you
had a lot of credit losses really around
mortgages and that's so that kind of a
situation we've got well capitalized uh
large banks. Um but that's just one part
of the financial system. the the capital
markets. The US has by far the largest
capital market sector relative to the
banking sector. The other countries
still have a much bigger banking sector
relative to their capital markets. And
you know that's going to be less well
reggulated and that's that's a good
thing. You want it to be the place where
you know where you know where biotech
companies can do IPOs and they may or
may not succeed but they can get capital
out of that market and you know you're
taking a lot of risk but great things
happen because people put money into
biotech. So um we've done some hardening
of that but we shouldn't be trying to
regulate risk out of existence. Um but
so I think and we did fix some of the
things that broke in the global
financial crisis and the pandemic we did
address. Um the real thing though is the
the econom I mean sorry the financial
sector is just always evolving rapidly
and I think you the vigilance is what
you need. You just need to always know
that there's another thing coming. Uh
and so and I think in particular we've
had all kinds of financial crises but
we've never really had a successful
cyber attack on a large financial
utility let's say or financial
institution and that would be quite a
different thing. You know if people are
going to lose money in in in a certain
part of the economy we have a hugely
resilient uh econ financial system. Now
it's more let me say this. more about
resilience than it is about avoiding
crisis. One of our former people used to
say that we're in the levy building
business, not the hurricane prevention
business, right?
&gt;&gt; So, um they're going to be hurricanes
and they're going to come and you just
have to assume you won't know what
direction or what the nature of it will
be. So, you want highly resilient uh
financial system and and we we do have
that. But again, nobody nobody nobody
who's in that business will ever will
ever give you a green light. They'll
always say here these are the risks and
we got to monitor. You mentioned private
credit. So private credit is something
you're as you guys are probably
following. Um it's a relatively small
part of of a very large asset pool.
We're watching it super carefully as
everyone is. We're talking to the people
in the industry and investors and
everything. I think we understand it.
We're monitoring it for looking for
things that might lead to greater
contagion or greater losses or
connections to the banking system and
you know we're going to do that. You're
again you're not going to hear people
say oh there's no problem here because
that's a jinx. Um but nonetheless it's
something that we're following very
carefully.
What is one of your biggest regrets in
your time as fed chair? And on the other
hand, what is something that you're very
proud of?
&gt;&gt; You know, on on regrets, I I don't allow
myself the luxury of that. I I think
it's really important that that uh in my
job I'm focused on the windshield and
not not the rear view mirror. And so I
don't I'm tempted to say regrets. I've
had a few,
but uh then again, not so many or
whatever the line is from that Frank
Sinatra song. So, uh, I just think you
you I I'll have plenty of time to for
that after I after I'm out of this role.
But, uh, honestly, you just have to keep
looking at the next thing. You can't be
berating yourself for the mistakes that
you made. You You're going to make
mistakes and you're going to learn from
them. Take it from an expert. Uh, I've
made plenty. But, um, I don't I don't
focus on regrets and things like that.
You know, my overall in terms of what
I'm proud of, I'm more than happy to
talk about that. Um,
&gt;&gt; let's go for it. Yeah, let's let's go
deep there. Uh, so um I basically I'll
just say it's an incredible honor to do
public service as many of you will find
out at some point in your life. I always
wanted to to do some of it. I saw these
people around Washington who were
well-known public servants like George
Schultz and I would think that that
looks like a really interesting thing to
do. It's it's different, you know, in
the private sector. It's I love my
private se my years in the private
sector, but there really is a feeling of
what you're doing is help hope help
ideally help helping all Americans and
that kind of thing. It's a great honor
to serve the public and particularly in
a job like this. So that is my the main
thing I'm proud of is you know 14 years
at the Fed and eight and a half of them
as chair. I'm I'll be I'll always be
proud of that
&gt;&gt; and I'm very grateful to you for your
service to our country.
&gt;&gt; Thank you. So, if you were willing to
share publicly some advice that you
would give to the next bed chair, we'd
love to hear it. So,
one thing you will learn uh when you
when your children are grown up and uh
and they have their own children is uh
is uh never volunteer advice. Only give
advice when asked. So, and I I would not
I will not uh I would only give advice
if asked and I would do it privately.
But I'll just say in general a couple
things about about the Fed. It is very
very important to stick to your knitting
and to stick to the things uh that were
actually assigned. And there's there's
always a temptation to want to move into
other areas. And I I think we you know
we have very powerful tools. They're
supposed to be for maximum employment
and price stability and financial
stability. There there's always a time
when an administration looks and says it
would be it would be good to use that
tool for something else. What if we were
just to like and call that like that's
part of the mandate happens all the time
and we just have to be in a situation
where we're we're not trying to be again
we're not trying to work against any any
politician or any any administration but
we have to be careful to stick to what
we're doing. The other thing is I'll
just note that you know the Fed's not a
perfect institution. Don't don't look
for perfection. uh what we do is very
challenging and highly uncertain, but
it's it's a great American institution
and I'm very proud to work with the
people I work with. They're
extraordinary right across the board, an
incredible group of people. And I'll
just close by saying it's very hard to
build great democratic institutions and
and much easier to to bring them down.
So though you were uncomfortable giving
unsolicited advice to your successor, um
I know that the students in this room
would love to hear your advice. They've
asked me for my advice and asked me what
you what you would advise them. So
they're entering into an uncertain time,
an economy where new job formation um is
lower for many reasons. Um, in
particular, jobs that were plentiful a
couple of years ago for students coming
out of college are no longer so. And AI
sits as this remarkable technological
transformation that is both promising
and existentially threatening. So, if
you're advising the 600 students that
sit here today, what would you suggest
they think about as they embark on both
academic and then ultimately
professional careers?
&gt;&gt; Let me let me start by saying that I'm
well aware and my colleagues too are
well aware of the current situation um
for students coming out. It's a time of
very low job creation. Um and also you
have AI going on. And you've got the
effects uh on job creation of
significant changes in immigration
policy which have brought down both
demand and supply of workers. The
unemployment rate is really low, but
that doesn't help you uh if you're
coming into that kind of market. So,
it's it's a time when um you're you're
the business I mean the there's a
business cycle, right? And you're coming
out in the business cycle at a time when
getting hired is a little bit
challenging. There's also probably
something more longer term, more secular
that's happening and around technology
and AI. So you're it's yes, it is a
challenging time, but I'll say a couple
things. One just is that the US economy
compared to other major e open economies
and big market-based economies around
the world is just incredibly dynamic and
productive. Since World War II, US um
compared to other again large mature
economies, our productivity has grown at
like twice the speed for example in
Europe and higher productivity is the
way you know uh compensation and
earnings can grow over time. So it's an
incredibly flexible and dynamic economy.
It reinvents itself. Technology it
always comes from the United States. So
just be optimistic about the medium and
longer term. I'm very optimistic about
the medium and longer term. Um
the other thing is my observation is
that you know these these large language
models make people much more productive.
I feel like it's making me more
productive because I can I can learn
things really quickly. Um you know and I
talked to you know my son and others who
are out there in the world and I think
if you use it well it's making you more
productive. So, I think you're you're in
a situation where you need to invest the
time to really master the use of these
new technologies and and uh that should
stand you in goodstead. I I but there's
there's no denying it's a it's a
challenging time to enter the labor
market, but it may take some patience
and all that, but in the longer term,
this economy is going to give you great
opportunities and just be be a little
optimistic about that. So when you talk
about the longer term, are you talking
about 10 years, 20 years, 40 years? Are
you worried that there'll be wind at our
back as we use these tools over the next
decade? But at some horizon, let's say
40 years, there'll be substitution
rather than complimentarity.
&gt;&gt; You know, it's it's so hard to say.
I mean a lot of people you talk to
business people are are talking about
you know the sort of the next few years
being big years for um AI to come in but
they're mostly talking about existing
you know middle market sorry middle
management back office jobs and things
like that. I don't think they're they're
it shouldn't have those kinds of effects
on people who can use AI well and that
kind I don't know but so certainly the
next few years look like whatever the
effects are they'll will start to feel
them because major US companies and we
talked to a lot of of those people who
who run those companies and you know
they're all looking at what they can do
and the truth is they can take out a lot
of jobs that can be automated by a very
smart large language model. they just
can and they will because if because
their competitors are doing it and they
they can't afford to have higher costs
than their competitors. What's that
going to mean for you? It may not mean
that much. It depends on what you're
going to wind up doing. You know, you
may stay in school a little bit and you
may do something that that is it's going
to create new jobs too over time. And
again, it makes people more productive.
I did talk to a CEO in tech world who
said the marginal benefit of a new
employee in this world is actually very
high. Now, that's not that's not what
you hear all the time. So um I don't
know I mean when you know if you if you
look back through history uh to
generalize tech this has been going on
for a couple hundred years this you know
since the loom was invented right and to
put all the people who were doing
weaving out of business but so in all
cases it has wound up raising
productivity and raising living
standards as long as as long as the
society keeps producing people who can
who can who have the skills and
aptitudes to benefit from that
technology.
Um, so that will be the case here, but
you're right there there can be a period
during which it's challenging and and
this may be one of those, but
nonetheless, I would just say it's out
there and it's it's out there to be done
and I I would be medium and longer term
very optimistic about about this economy
compared to any other economy.
&gt;&gt; Terrific. Thank you so much. We're now
going to open it up to your questions.
So, um I think I've got Jason and David
in the in the well and I've got two
microphones in the balcony. Why don't we
start with um Oh, Jason, do you have a
question?
&gt;&gt; I think I have a question. Great.
Fantastic. We're going to let Jason ask
the first question. Uh
&gt;&gt; oh.
&gt;&gt; Um so, Chair Powell, when you're making
decisions at the Fed, I'm curious, how
much are you relying on very specific
economic models? The Fed has its own big
fancy model Furbus. How much are you
relying on information you get from
talking to people out in the real world
to businesses, your own intuition and
experience? What what do you bring
together as a way of thinking about
these decisions with a role of economics
but everything else that feeds into it?
&gt;&gt; So, it's really all it's really all of
the above. We have to start with the
perimeter. You know, we the reserve
banks are in touch. They're in all 50
states, right? 12 12 reserve banks. And
they bring summaries of these extensive
conversations they have with the public
sector, the private sector,
universities, healthcare, everything in
their district. And we see all of that
in the beige book and in the meetings.
We we get all of that. We also look at
several models. It's never just the
Furbus model. It's many many different
models and we look at different
alternative simulations. You look at all
of that and then we we look at where our
policy stance is and we we look out the
window and we say, does it look like our
policy stance is affecting the economy
in a way that moves us closer to our
goal variables or keeps us at our goal
variables. You do all of that. We also
talk to each other. You know, I talk to
the other 18 participants on the FOMC a
couple of times each cycle and people
have different thoughts and ways of
thinking about things. Talk to the
senior staff. You know, they've been
doing this longer than any of us. Um, so
all of those things go into it. I
wouldn't say, you know, I mean, so a
good analogy is, uh, when I was in the
private equity business, we had really
good models of companies and my my big
boss said, "We we we want to have the
best model in the industry, but if you
think that model is going to make the
decision for you, you're in the wrong
business." So the models are just
illustrative. We we cannot model the US
economy with the kind of precision that
that we will never be able to probably.
It's like modeling the weather. You
can't predict it two months away. So,
but that's so it's all of those things.
Jason,
&gt;&gt; thank you.
&gt;&gt; Okay. So, David, why don't you pick the
first hand and then Jason, you'll get
the second hand
and then we'll go to the balcony. So,
looking for someone upstairs.
&gt;&gt; Hi, my name is Fabio. I'm a first year
studying economics and government. Um,
I'm really interested in kind of the
decision- making in the in the Fed. How
do you work with situations where like
the the decision might be very tight and
like sometimes there's like expectations
of like the um interest rates increasing
or and it might be very tight in those
very tight decisions like how do you
make end up making the decision?
&gt;&gt; So remember I'm one of 12 voters. Uh so
I I there's a an FOMC cycle is about
seven weeks between meetings. We have
eight of them a year. So uh and I would
say sort of 3 weeks before the meeting
by then I have to have a pretty good
sense of what I think we need to do and
staff will already have been working on
if we're doing anything in particular.
We always have like a special topic. So
a lot of work is going on. So I I I
almost need to make a decision about the
probable thing we're going to do. And
then I have to talk to everybody a
couple of times because I got to get
people to vote for this. And I've got to
a lot of it is finding out where the
sentiment of the committee is. I've been
working with these people for many
years. So most of the time I I kind of
know how they'll approach a problem. Um
and uh that's that's how it works. So
it's a lot of talking and listening and
understanding. Um I I think an
underrated skill is in um listening to
people. listening is, you know, if you
if you listen to people and you hear
them and you can make their argument and
they they understand that you're
actually listening to them and not just,
you know, communicating at them for most
of the people most of the time, that's
going to be enough. And by the way,
that's true on Capitol Hill. That's
true. It was true when I was a governor.
If I felt I mean, I always felt like Ben
or Ben Bernanki or Janet were listening
to me. And if that if they could engage
with the pro the points I was making
then I felt like I could support what
they wanted me to support. So it's a lot
of that though. I mean it's it's a lot
of committee management. That's the big
part of it is to is to have active
dialogues going with all of the FOMC
participants and by the way also with
all the senior staff who've been doing
this a very long time and they you know
they bring in many cases they bring you
know history going back many years. For
example, in in the public communications
that we make, you know, somebody who's
been doing that for 30 years will tell
you, don't use that word, even though
that word might make sense in another
context.
&gt;&gt; Okay.
&gt;&gt; Over here.
&gt;&gt; Uh, good morning, Mr. Pal. Um, I wanted
to ask you a bit more about um private
credit markets and particularly rising
defaults among non-bank lenders like
Blue Al Capital. Um, so I wanted to ask
to what extent could stress in these
private credit markets spill over into
the traditional banking system.
&gt;&gt; So that's the question we ask ourselves
quite a bit and you know as I as I
mentioned we're we're watching very
carefully. Of course you read you what
you can read in public. We're also
getting the backstory from the people
who run these uh organizations and from
all the banks supervisors are well aware
of what the bank's exposure is and what
is not. And um you know I'm reluctant to
say anything that suggests that we're
dismissive of the risk, but we're
looking for connections to the banking
system and things that might you know
result in contagion. We don't see those
right now. We what we see is uh uh you
know a correction going on and um and uh
certainly there'll be people losing
money and things like that, but it
doesn't it doesn't seem to have the the
makings of a of a broader systemic
event. But again, we never, you know, we
never give a a clean bill of health. We
just keep watching for that. We don't we
don't see those characteristics though
right now.
&gt;&gt; Okay, let's go to the balcony and
remember to share your name when you
begin your question. Great.
&gt;&gt; What's over here?
&gt;&gt; Um, hi, my name is Cody. Thank you so
much for being here, Mr. Powell. My
question is about whether international
relations has um impact on your
decision-m. I know you mentioned that,
you know, the Fed's job to do exactly
what's best objectively for the American
economy, but I'm wondering, you know, if
you're competing with, you know, let's
say China or other powerful countries,
whether or not you would kind of, you
know, cut interest rates or do something
like that to stimulate the economy to
kind of get ahead of other countries.
&gt;&gt; No, it doesn't. You know, we're we're
always asking the question, as you'd
suggest, you know, what we serve the
American public always in all of our
decisions and what is best for them. How
do we achieve maximum employment and
price stability on a sustainable basis?
That's that's what we're always asking.
We do, you know, meet with, you know, in
Basil, the central banks all meet
without the finance ministries and we
can talk privately about what's going on
in global financial markets. It is a
global economy. We all know each other
and and frankly many of us have regular
communications going on just privately,
you know, or you know, by telephone,
email and text and things like that. But
we're never we're never looking to um to
get on the on the turf of you know the
national security people or the or the
you know the state department or you
know things like that. We're not looking
looking at things that way. We're
looking at our goals. That would be I
think a classic case of mission creep.
If we were to say hey let's let's let's
deviate from just chasing these two
goals and let's do something for a third
purpose. That would almost by definition
make us less effective at the things
we're supposed to be doing. So, we try
to stick to that.
&gt;&gt; Okay, great. David, you're next.
&gt;&gt; Good morning. My name is Jenny and thank
you so much for coming. We're all very
honored that you took the time to come.
Um, so last lecture we learned about
soft landings and about how it's
definitely much more ideal than hard
landings, but in the US history, we've
had far more hard landings than soft
landings. And we were just talking about
how it's really important that you are
monitoring expected inflation. Um, and I
think a lot of that just built comes
down to the trust between the public and
the central bank. And the central bank
is known to be much more technocratic.
But I think especially with like the
rise of populism and previous events,
there seems to be a lot of uh impact of
like political tensions between or or
cooperation between the Fed chair
position and the administration and I
wanted to ask you how do you still keep
the public's trust this way? um by
sticking to our jobs and doing them
well. Ultimately, we if we deliver the
maximum employment and price stability
or at at least are seen to be doing
everything we possibly can as we meet
various shocks and you know, multiple
supply shocks in recent years, the
public keeps its faith in us. And if you
look, you know, we look at things like
longerterm inflation expectations and
you'll you'll see that they they've
remained pretty well anchored right
through all of this, you know. So if you
if you really think inflation's going to
be higher, you can make some money
betting against that, but people don't
do that. You know, the people who are
putting their money to work in the
financial markets, not to give too much
credit to that, but that's but that's
it. If we stick to our knitting and we
do our jobs, we stay out of politics,
stay out of stay out of the hot
political issues of the day and just do
your job and keep your head down. I
think, you know, I see this through the
my dealings with elected people. you
know, if if they get the sense that
you're you're you're not there to
deliver talking points, you're there to
listen to them and and you're really
somebody who's committed to doing your
job and sticking just to that job and
that's all you want and you're not going
to get into politics, that's that's what
we need to do. And I think generally um
I think we are accepted in that spirit
in Washington and I think I think
generally around the country as well.
&gt;&gt; Jason
Remember
to tell us your name.
&gt;&gt; Thank you, Chairp, for being here. My
name is Jake. Uh, as you know, your term
ends in May, and a potential successor,
Kevin Worsh, has indicated a desire to
cut rates if he fills the role of chair.
What is your effect? What is your take
on the effect that a cut would have on
the flexibility of the Fed to maintain
well to remain well positioned to
maintain both sides of its dual mandate,
particularly given the fact that
inflation has remained elevated above
the Fed's 2% target for several years
now and progress is further halted by
the oil shock and tariffs especially.
&gt;&gt; Jake, um that's that's not something I'm
going to going to uh going to swing at
that pitch. Is that a Red Sox jersey, by
the way?
I called on him.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay.
&gt;&gt; I know this must be Red Sox country.
&gt;&gt; So, we're going to go to the balcony
next.
&gt;&gt; Hi, my name is Aean Candle. So, earlier
you said that you don't know how much
you believe in something until someone
tries to take it apart. So my question
was, what's the thing you currently
believe about the economy that you're
least confident of?
&gt;&gt; Interesting question. Um,
I can't I'm not going to give you a
particular individual thing uh at the
moment, but I I will say that um I I I
would say this and I of course this is
self- serving to an extent, but having
worked in the private economy for most
of my career, I I don't have any
predisposition
to believe that models can really
capture it.
Um because so much of it is animal
spirits as Kane's called it. Uh and also
it's just it's again I go back to the
weather. Will we ever be able to predict
the weather with any precision three
three months ahead other than that
seasons? So the economy no one has been
able to really successfully predict the
economy. So I I think the temptation is
always to um to place too much uh sort
of stock in uh you know in models or in
one particular outlook. The other thing
is another thing which is a big takeaway
is you know about fat tails right so
famously the financial it's there's a
normal distribution and the tales are
what they are it's not a normal
distribution the tails are fat and
however fat you think they are they're
fatter than that the the possibility for
the economies at any given time is so
much so so much broader for example the
pandemic inflation we'd spent 15 years
with the inflation below target And that
was at a time of QE and lots of
financial fiscal stimulus and that kind
of thing. We had inflation below target
and people pretty much the profession
had the big problem the whole profession
was trying to solve was how do we get
inflation up to 2%. That was really the
problem. And then then along comes the
pandemic inflation and bang suddenly you
have a 40-year high inflation. So it's
hard to keep your mind open to just how
broad the possibilities are.
Take down here. Yes. Hi, my name is
Robert. Thank you so much for being
here. I'm a first year studying econ,
math, and philosophy. Um,
so many economists that I've listened to
uh at least retroactively say that what
we really needed uh during the COVID
pandemic was around $3 trillion and the
government printed, you know, something
along $6 trillion more than that. Uh,
and so inflation uh rose, but that money
is still out there. So if rates come
down, you know, obviously you took
initiative and you raised them very
significantly. If rates get lowered
again to let's say two or so percent. Uh
do you think that the price spikes have
already played out or do you think that
all that extra money being out there
will you know on top of you know
instability
uh geopolitically uh do you think that's
going to uh push us back into an
inflationary spiral? Uh, and then also I
was wondering uh for your next press
conference, are you gonna start it with
good afternoon or hello everyone?
Let's talk about that later. I'm
so um sorry the first question was um
was the expansion the money supply.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. No, so I I think monetary
quantities are a very challenging way to
try to think about inflation and the
economy. There was a time when the
profession thought that you know
monetary quantities and inflation were
tightly linked and of course it in an
abstract way or a simple model it makes
sense if you if you don't increase the
amount of goods and you double the
amount of money then the price has to go
up but that there has been relatively
little correlation and you know my story
of the pandemic inflation would not be
about monetary quantities mainly I'm not
saying it might not have played a role
um it was more you did have a lot of
stimulus us particularly in the United
States. Uh at the same time, we were
looking at at at the possibility of
another great depression. We didn't know
whether there would ever be a a vaccine.
We didn't know what this was going to
be. How many millions of people was the
is the disease going to kill? So
literally for the first time probably
ever, we're looking at a you know little
alternative simulations that are a great
depression lasting many years. So we did
a lot of stimulus and then when the
global economy reopened after shutting
down, you had this burst of demand,
red-hot demand and constrained supply
still. So automobiles is a great
example. Everybody wanted a car because
they didn't want to take public
transportation and they'd all moved to
the suburbs and out of the city. So I
need a car and yet you couldn't make
cars because you couldn't get the
semiconductors. So you're you're looking
at a vertical supply curve. So a little
bit of demand drove prices up a lot. Um
then of course we took the view, my
colleagues and I did that a vertical
supply curve works both ways. If if a
little bit a little bit of demand could
bring that price right down and also it
won't be vertical forever. It'll it'll
start you you'll get supply side
healing. You got those two things. It's
it was always both supply and demand for
me. And you got inflation coming down
very sharply in 23 and 24. We got close
to to to the end of your question. we
got pretty close to 2% in um by the end
of 24. Now we're dealing we were just
dealing with the you know the the effect
of tariffs which have largely fallen
here in the US and not abroad. Um
they've been less than expected because
the other side the um others didn't
retaliate and also because what was
implemented was less than what had been
announced. Nonetheless, that's that was
the piece. We were we were at about 3%
inflation and somewhere between 0.5 and8
of that is from is from tariffs. So
we're getting we've been pretty close to
2% all this time. Now we have another
supply shock coming. You know, it's it's
one of those uh times where you get a
series of supply shocks. First the
pandemic, then the much smaller one from
tariffs, and then we're getting now an
energy shock. No one knows how big it
will be. We It's way too early to know.
As I mentioned, we do think our policy
is in a good place for us to wait and
see.
&gt;&gt; Okay. So, one last question.
&gt;&gt; Hi, Mr. Pal. I'm Lola and I was
wondering at what point does the size of
the US's debt break the point of natural
systems repayment and if that's
something you're worried about now or
something you think our generation
should look out for.
Um I don't think we know uh what that
number is sort of ratio of debt to GDP
where it'll be a problem. There are of
course Japan being a great example there
are countries that have much higher um
levels of sovereign debt to their GDP
than we do. What's clear is that our uh
debt is growing much faster. The federal
government debt is growing substantially
faster than our economy and that ratio
is going up. And you know, in the long
run, that's kind of the definition of
unsustainable. The level of the debt is
not unsustainable, but the path is not
sustainable. And so, it's it's really
important that we get back to we don't
have to pay the debt down. We just need
to to to have, you know, primary balance
and and begin to have the economy
actually growing better, growing uh more
quickly than the economy. It will it
will not end well if we don't do
something fairly soon. This is not the
Fed's job of course and I pretty much
limit myself to those high level points
which which essentially everyone
ignores.
So we're going to thank Chair Powell but
let me just describe the sequence of
events that now follows. So first we'll
thank Chair Powell. Then anyone who
wants to is welcome to join us on the
stage and we'll take a group photo with
Chair Powell. Um because of a tight
schedule, there can't be any selfies
because if there's one selfie, there's
600 selfies, right? So, you'll need to
um make do with one photograph of the
entire class with our esteemed guest.
But before we uh do that, please join me
in warmly thanking Kier Powell.
Now come up on stage.