SOURCE: https://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/files/FOMCpresconf20220921.pdf

September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

Transcript of Chair Powell’s Press Conference 
September 21, 2022 

CHAIR POWELL.  Good afternoon.  My colleagues and I are strongly committed to 

bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal.  We have both the tools we need and the 

resolve that it will take to restore price stability on behalf of American families and businesses.  

Price stability is the responsibility of the Federal Reserve and serves as the bedrock of our 

economy.  Without price stability, the economy does not work for anyone.  In particular, without 

price stability, we will not achieve a sustained period of strong labor market conditions that 

benefit all. 

Today the FOMC raised its policy interest rate by ¾ percentage point, and we anticipate 

that ongoing increases will be appropriate.  We are moving our policy stance purposefully to a 

level that will be sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent.  In addition, we are 

continuing the process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheet.  I will have more to 

say about today’s monetary policy actions after briefly reviewing economic developments. 

The U.S. economy has slowed from the historically high growth rates of 2021, which 

reflected the reopening of the economy following the pandemic recession.  Recent indicators 

point to modest growth of spending and production.  Growth in consumer spending has slowed 

from last year’s rapid pace, in part reflecting lower real disposable income and tighter financial 

conditions.  Activity in the housing sector has weakened significantly, in large part reflecting 

higher mortgage rates.  Higher interest rates and slower output growth also appear to be 

weighing on business fixed investment, while weaker economic growth abroad is restraining 

exports.  As shown in our Summary of Economic Projections, since June, FOMC participants 

have marked down their projections for economic activity, with the median projection for real 

Page 1 of 21 

 
 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

GDP growth standing at just 0.2 percent this year and 1.2 percent next year, well below the 

median estimate of the longer-run normal growth rate. 

Despite the slowdown in growth, the labor market has remained extremely tight, with the 

unemployment rate near a 50-year low, job vacancies near historical highs, and wage growth 

elevated.  Job gains have been robust, with employment rising by an average of 378,000 jobs per 

month over the last three months.  The labor market continues to be out of balance, with demand 

for workers substantially exceeding the supply of available workers.  The labor force 

participation rate showed a welcome uptick in August but is little changed since the beginning of 

the year.  FOMC participants expect supply and demand conditions in the labor market to come 

into better balance over time, easing the upward pressure on wages and prices.  The median 

projection in the SEP for the unemployment rate rises to 4.4 percent at the end of next year, 

½ percentage point higher than in the June projections.  Over the next three years, the median 

unemployment rate runs above the median estimate of its longer-run normal level. 

Inflation remains well above our 2 percent longer-run goal.  Over the 12 months ending 

in July, total PCE prices rose 6.3 percent; excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core 

PCE prices rose 4.6 percent.  In August, the 12-month change in the consumer price index was 

8.3 percent, and the change in the core CPI was 6.3 percent.  Price pressures remain evident 

across a broad range of goods and services.  Although gasoline prices have turned down in recent 

months, they remain well above year-earlier levels, in part reflecting Russia’s war against 

Ukraine, which has boosted prices for energy and food and has created additional upward 

pressure on inflation.  The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 5.4 percent this 

year and falls to 2.8 percent next year, 2.3 percent in 2024, and 2 percent in 2025.  Participants 

continue to see risks to inflation as weighted to the upside. 

Page 2 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

Despite elevated inflation, longer-term inflation expectations appear to remain well 

anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters as 

well as measures from financial markets.  But that is not grounds for complacency; the longer the 

current bout of high inflation continues, the greater the chance that expectations of higher 

inflation will become entrenched. 

The Fed’s monetary policy actions are guided by our mandate to promote maximum 

employment and stable prices for the American people.  My colleagues and I are acutely aware 

that high inflation imposes significant hardship, as it erodes purchasing power, especially for 

those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation.  We 

are highly attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and we are 

strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. 

At today’s meeting, the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by 

¾ percentage point, bringing the target range to 3 to 3¼ percent.  And we are continuing the 

process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheet, which plays an important role in 

firming the stance of monetary policy. 

Over coming months, we will be looking for compelling evidence that inflation is moving 

down consistent with inflation returning to 2 percent.  We anticipate that ongoing increases in the 

target range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate; the pace of those increases will 

continue to depend on the incoming data and the evolving outlook for the economy.  With 

today’s action, we have raised interest rates by 3 percentage points this year.  At some point, as 

the stance of monetary policy tightens further, it will become appropriate to slow the pace of 

increases while we assess how our cumulative policy adjustments are affecting the economy and 

Page 3 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

inflation.  We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting and communicate our 

thinking as clearly as possible. 

Restoring price stability will likely require maintaining a restrictive policy stance for 

some time.  The historical record cautions strongly against prematurely loosening policy.  As 

shown in the SEP, the median projection for the appropriate level of the federal funds rate is 

4.4 percent at the end of this year, 1 percentage point higher than projected in June.  The median 

projection rises to 4.6 percent at the end of next year and declines to 2.9 percent by the end of 

2025, still above the median estimate of its longer-run value.  Of course, these projections do not 

represent a Committee decision or plan, and no one knows with any certainty where the economy 

will be a year or more from now. 

We are taking forceful and rapid steps to moderate demand so that it comes into better 

alignment with supply.  Our overarching focus is using our tools to bring inflation back down to 

our 2 percent goal and to keep longer-term inflation expectations well anchored.  Reducing 

inflation is likely to require a sustained period of below-trend growth, and there will very likely 

be some softening of labor market conditions.  Restoring price stability is essential to set the 

stage for achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the longer run.  We will keep 

at it until we are confident the job is done. 

To conclude:  We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and 

businesses across the country.  Everything we do is in service to our public mission.  We at the 

Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum-employment and price-stability goals. 

Thank you, and I look forward to your questions. 

JEANNA SMIALEK.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Thank you for taking our questions.  Jeanna 

Smialek from the New York Times.  I wonder if you could give us a little detail around how 

Page 4 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

you’ll know when to slow down these rate increases and how you’ll eventually know when 

to stop. 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I will answer—I will answer your question directly, but I want to 

start here today by saying that my main message has not changed at all since Jackson Hole.  The 

FOMC is strongly resolved to bring inflation down to 2 percent, and we will keep at it until the 

job is done.  So the way we’re thinking about this is, the overarching focus of the Committee is 

getting inflation back down to 2 percent.  To accomplish that, we think we’ll need to do two 

things, in particular:  to achieve a period of growth below trend; and also some softening in labor 

market conditions to foster a better balance between demand and supply in the labor market.   

So on the first, the Committee’s forecasts and those of most outside forecasters do show 

growth running below its longer-run potential this year and next year.  On the second, though, so 

far there’s only modest evidence that the labor market is cooling off.  Job openings are down a 

bit, as you know; quits are off their all-time highs; there’s some signs that some wage measures 

may be flattening out but not moving up; payroll gains have moderated but not much.  And in 

light of the high inflation we’re seeing, we think we’ll need to—and in light of what I just said, 

we think that we’ll need to bring our funds rate to a restrictive level and to keep it there for 

some time. 

So, what will we be looking at, I guess, is your question.  So we’ll be looking at a few 

things.  First, we’ll want to see growth continuing to run below trend, we’ll want to see 

movements in the labor market showing a return to a better balance between supply and demand, 

and, ultimately, we’ll want to see clear evidence that inflation is moving back down to 2 percent.  

So that’s what we’ll be looking for.  In terms of reducing rates, I think we’d want to be very 

confident that inflation is moving back down to 2 percent before we would consider that. 

Page 5 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Steve. 

STEVE LIESMAN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Steve Liesman, CNBC.  Can you talk 

about how you factor in the variable lags on inflation and the extent to which the outlook for 

rates should be seen as linear in the sense that you keep raising rates?  Well, can you envision a 

time when there’s a pause to kind of look at what has been wrought in the economy from the rate 

increases?  Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL.  Sure.  So, of course, monetary policy does, famously, work with long 

and variable lags.  The way I think of it is, our policy decisions affect financial conditions 

immediately.  In fact, financial conditions have usually been affected well before we actually 

announce our decisions.  Then, changes in financial conditions begin to affect economic activity 

fairly quickly, within a few months.  But it’s likely to take some time to see the full effects of 

changing financial conditions on inflation.  So we are very much mindful for that.  And that’s 

why I noted in my opening remarks that, at some point, as the stance of policy tightens further, it 

will become appropriate to slow the pace of rate hikes while we assess how our cumulative 

policy adjustments are affecting the economy and inflation.  So that’s how we think about that. 

Your second question—sorry—was?  

STEVE LIESMAN.  Is there a point in time you could see pausing?  Is it linear?  Do you 

keep raising rates, or is there—oh, sorry, I should know better than to not talk with a 

microphone. 

CHAIR POWELL.  I should know better than to answer your second question.  

[Laughter] 

STEVE LIESMAN.  Well, there you go.  Is it linear?  Do you keep raising rates, or is 

there a pause that you could envision where you kind of figure out what has happened to the 

Page 6 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

economy and give time to catch up in the real economy—the rate increase time to catch up in the 

real economy?  Thank you.   

CHAIR POWELL.  So I think it’s very hard to say with precise certainty the way this is 

going to unfold.  As I mentioned, what we think we need to do and should do is to move our 

policy rate to a restrictive level that’s restrictive enough to bring inflation down to 2 percent, 

where we have confidence of that.  And what you see in the SEP numbers is people’s views as of 

today, as of this meeting, as to the kind of levels that will be appropriate. 

Now, those will evolve over time, and I think we’ll just have to see how that goes.  There 

is a possibility, certainly, that we would go to a certain level that we’re confident in and stay 

there for a time.  But we’re not at that level.  Clearly, today we’re, we’ve just moved, I think, 

probably, into the very lowest level of what might be restrictive, and, certainly, in my view and 

the view of the Committee, there’s a ways to go. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Okay.  Rachel. 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Rachel Siegel from the Washington Post.  Thank 

you for taking our questions.  The projections show the unemployment rate rising to 4.4 percent 

next year, and, historically, that kind of rise in the unemployment rate would typically bring a 

recession with it.  Should we interpret that to mean no soft landing, and is that kind of rise 

necessary to get inflation down?  

CHAIR POWELL.  Right.  So you’re right—in the SEP, there’s what I would 

characterize as a relatively modest increase in the unemployment rate from a historical 

perspective, given the expected decline in inflation.  Now, why is that?  So, really, that is what 

we generally expect because we see the current situation as outside of historical experience in a 

number of ways, and I’ll mention a couple of those.  First—and you know these—but first, job 

Page 7 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

openings are incredibly high relative to the number of people looking for work.  It’s plausible, 

I’ll say, that job openings could come down significantly—and they need to—without as much 

of an increase in unemployment as has happened in earlier historical episodes.  So that’s one 

thing. 

In addition, in this cycle, longer-run inflation expectations have generally been fairly well 

anchored, and, as I’ve said, there’s no basis for complacency there.  But to the extent that 

continues to be the case, that should make it easier to restore price stability.  And I guess the 

third thing I would point to that’s different this time is that part of this inflation is caused by this 

series of supply shocks that we’ve had, beginning with the pandemic, and, really, with the 

reopening of the economy, and more recently amplified and added to by Russia’s invasion of 

Ukraine—have all contributed to the sharp increase in inflation. 

So these are the kinds of events that are not really seen in prior business cycles, and, in 

principle, if those things start to get better—and we do see some evidence of the beginnings of 

that.  It’s not much more than that, but it’s good to see that.  For example, commodity prices look 

like they may have peaked for now; supply chain disruptions are beginning to resolve.  Those 

developments, if sustained, could help ease the pressures on inflation. 

So let me just say, how much these factors will turn out to really matter in this sequence 

of events—it remains to be seen.  We have always understood that restoring price stability while 

achieving a relatively modest decline—or, rather, increase—in unemployment and a soft landing 

would be very challenging.  And we don’t know—no one knows whether this process will lead 

to a recession or, if so, how significant that recession would be.  That’s going to depend on how 

quickly wage and price inflation pressures come down, whether expectations remain anchored, 

and whether, also, do we get more labor supply, which would help as well. 

Page 8 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

In addition, the chances of a soft landing are likely to diminish to the extent that policy 

needs to be more restrictive or restrictive for longer.  Nonetheless, we’re committed to getting 

inflation back down to 2 percent—because we think that a failure to restore price stability would 

mean far greater pain later on. 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  Just to follow up on one small thing—are vacancies still at the top of 

your list in terms of understanding the labor market and how much room there is there?  

CHAIR POWELL.  Yes, vacancies are still almost a 2-to-1 ratio to unemployed people.  

That and quits are really very good ways to look at how tight the labor market is and how 

different it is from other cycles, where, generally, the unemployment rate itself is the single best 

indicator.  We think those things have, for quite a time now, really added value in terms of 

understanding where the labor market is.   

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nick. 

NICK TIMIRAOS.  Nick Timiraos of the Wall Street Journal.  You said not too long 

ago, in describing the policy destination, there’s still a way to go.  But I imagine you have to 

have some idea about how you’re thinking about your destination, whether it’s a stopping point 

or a pausing point.  And so I was wondering if you could discuss how you are thinking about, as 

the data come in, where that destination is, how it’s moving up.  If inflation doesn’t perform as 

you expect, do you want to have a policy rate that’s above the underlying inflation rate, for 

example, and do you have an estimate for where you think the underlying inflation rate might be 

in the economy right now? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, so, again, we believe that we need to raise our policy stance 

overall to a level that is restrictive—and by that I mean, is meaningfully, putting meaningful 

downward pressure on inflation.  That’s what we need to see in the stance of policy.  We also 

Page 9 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

know that there are long and variable lags, particularly as they relate to inflation.  So it’s a 

challenging assessment.  So, what do you look at?  You look at broader financial conditions, as 

you know; you look at where rates are, real and nominal in some cases; you look at credit 

spreads; you look at financial conditions indexes. 

We also, I would think—and you see this in the—this is something we talked about today 

in the meeting and talk about in all of our meetings.  And you see this, I think, in the Committee 

forecast.  You want to be at a place where real rates are positive across the entire yield curve.  

And I think that would be the case if you look at the numbers that we’re writing down and think 

about—you measure those against some sort of forward-looking assessment of inflation, 

inflation expectations.  I think you would see at that time—you’d see positive real rates across 

the yield curve, and that is also an important consideration. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Howard.   

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Hi.  Howard Schneider with Reuters.  Thanks for the 

opportunity.  I just want to be clear on the SEPs.  You say it’s meeting by meeting, but it sure 

looks like we’re going 75–50–25.  Is 75 next month the baseline? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So we make one decision per meeting, and the decision we made 

today was to raise the federal funds rate by 75 [basis points].  You’re right that the median for 

the year-end suggests another 125 basis points in rate increases, but there’s also, there’s another 

fairly large group that saw a 100 basis points addition to where we are today.  So that would be 

25 basis points less.  So we’re going to make that decision at the meeting.  We didn’t make that 

decision today; we didn’t vote on that.  I would say that we’re committed to getting to a 

restrictive level for the federal funds rate and getting there pretty quickly, and that’s what we’re 

thinking about. 

Page 10 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  So, just as a follow-up to that, I’m wondering about the sort 

of risk-management considerations here, given there’s some discussion now of overdoing it.  

What’s the incentive to continue front-loading right now?  Is it lack of progress on inflation seen 

in the CPI reports?  Or is it a motivation to get as much done while the job market is still as 

strong as it is? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So, what we’ve seen is, inflation has—our expectation has been that 

we would begin to see inflation come down, largely because of supply-side healing.  By now we 

would have thought that we’d have seen some of that.  We haven’t.  We have seen some supply-

side healing, but inflation has not really come down.  If you look at core PCE inflation, which is 

a good measure of where inflation is running now, if you look at it on a 3-, 6-, and 12-month 

trailing annualized basis, you’ll see that inflation is at 4.8 percent, 4.5 percent, and 4.8 percent. 

So that’s a pretty good summary of where we are with inflation.  And that’s not where we 

expected or wanted to be.  So, what that tells us is that we need to continue, and we can—keep 

doing these, and we did today—do another large increase as we approach the level that we think 

we need to get to.  And we’re still discovering what that level is.  But people are writing that 

down in their SEP where they think policy needs to be.  So that’s how we’re thinking about it. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Let’s go to Colby. 

COLBY SMITH.  Thank you.  Colby Smith with the Financial Times.  Chair Powell, 

how should we interpret the fact that core inflation is still not forecast in the SEP to be back to 

target in 2025, and yet the dot plot projects cuts as early as 2024?  And does that mean there’s a 

level of inflation above the 2 percent target that the Fed is willing to tolerate? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I guess core is at 2.1 in 2025—in the median—and headline is at 

2.0, so that’s pretty close.  I mean, we write down our forecasts, and we figure out what the 

Page 11 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

median is, and we publish it.  So it’s not—I mean, I would say that if, actually, if the economy 

followed this path, this would be a pretty good outcome.  But you’re right—it is a tenth higher 

than 2 percent. 

COLBY SMITH.  Okay.  Just as a quick follow-up:  I mean, if the concern is that 

underlying inflation is becoming more entrenched, perhaps, each month, then why forgo the 

more aggressive 100 basis point increase today, and does that risk having to do more later on? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah.  So we, as we said at the last press conference and in between 

that one and this one, we said that we would make our decision based on the overall data coming 

in.  So, if you remember, we got a surprisingly low reading in July and then a surprisingly high 

reading for August.  So I think you have to—you can’t really—you never want to overreact too 

much to any one data point. 

So if you look at them together—and, as I just mentioned, if you really look at this year’s 

inflation, 3-, 6-, and 12-month trailing, you see inflation is running too high.  It’s running 

4.5 percent or above; you don’t need to know much more than that.  If that’s the one thing you 

know, you know that this Committee is committed to getting to a meaningfully restrictive stance 

of policy and staying there until we feel confident that inflation is coming down.  That’s how we 

think about it. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Victoria. 

VICTORIA GUIDA.  Hi.  Victoria Guida with Politico.  I wanted to ask about the 

balance sheet.  You all have left open the possibility that you might sell mortgage-backed 

securities, but we’ve seen significant slowing in the housing market.  Mortgage rates have gone 

up significantly, and I’m just wondering whether conditions there might affect your plans for 

how quickly you have the runoff on the MBS side.   

Page 12 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So we, what we said, as you know, was that we would consider that 

once balance sheet runoff is well under way.  I would say it’s not something we’re considering 

right now and not something I expect to be considering in the near term.  It’s just, it’s something 

I think we will turn to, but that time, the time for turning to it, has not come and is not close. 

VICTORIA GUIDA.  Will conditions in the housing market affect that decision?  

CHAIR POWELL.  I think a number of things might affect that decision, really.  The 

main thing is, we’re not considering that decision, and I don’t expect that we will any time soon. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Thank you.  Neil. 

NEIL IRWIN.  Thanks.  Neil Irwin with Axios.  A number of commentators have come 

to the view, including over at the World Bank, that simultaneous global tightening around the 

world is, creates a risk of a global recession that’s worse than is necessary to bring inflation 

down.  How do you see that risk?  How do you think of coordination with your fellow central 

bankers?  And is there much risk of overdoing it on a global level? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So we, actually, my colleagues and I, a number of my FOMC 

colleagues and I, just got back from one of our frequent trips to Basel, Switzerland, to meet with 

other senior central bank officials from around the world.  We are in pretty regular contact, and 

we exchange, of course—we all serve a domestic mandate, domestic objectives—in our case, the 

dual mandate, maximum employment and price stability.  But we regularly discuss what we’re 

seeing in terms of our own economy and international spillovers, and it’s a very ongoing, 

constant kind of a process. 

So we are very aware of what’s going on in other economies around the world and what 

that means for us, and vice versa.  The forecasts that we put together, that our staff puts together, 

and that we put together on our own always take all of that—try to take all of that into account.  I 

Page 13 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

mean, I can’t say that we do it perfectly, but it’s not as if we don’t think about the policy 

decisions—monetary policy and otherwise—the economic developments that are taking place in 

major economies that can have an effect on the U.S. economy.  That is very much baked into our 

own forecast and our own understanding of the U.S. economy, as best we can.  It won’t be 

perfect. 

So I don’t see—it’s hard to talk about collaboration in a world where people have very 

different levels of interest rates.  If you remember, there were coordinated cuts and raises and 

things like that at various times, but, really, we’re all, we’re in very different situations.  But I 

will tell you, our contact is more or less ongoing, and it’s not coordination, but there’s a lot of 

information sharing.  And we all, I think, are informed by what other important economies—

economies that are important to the United States—are doing. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Craig.   

CRAIG TORRES.  Craig Torres from Bloomberg.  Chair Powell, you talked about some 

ways the higher interest rates are affecting the economy, but we’ve also seen a resilient labor 

market with durable consumption, strong corporate profits, and I’m wondering what your story is 

on the resilience of the economy.  After all, you and your colleagues said, “Well, we started 

tightening in March when we were talking about interest rates in the future.”  And, indeed, 

Treasury rates moved up, so we should have had a lot of tightening taking effect.  Why is the 

economy, in your view, so resilient, and does it mean that we might need a possibly higher 

terminal rate? 

CHAIR POWELL.  You’re right, of course—the labor market, in particular, has been 

very strong.  But there are—the sectors of the economy that are most interest rate sensitive are 

certainly showing the effects of our tightening, and, of course, the obvious example is housing, 

Page 14 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

where you see declining activity of all different kinds and house price increases moving down.  

So we’re having an effect on interest-sensitive spending.  I think, through exchange rates, we’re 

having an effect on exports and imports.  I think—so all of that’s happening, but you’re right, 

and we’ve said this:  This is a strong, robust economy.  People have savings on their balance 

sheet from the period when they couldn’t spend and where they were getting government 

transfers.  There’s still very significant savings out there, although not as much at the lower end 

of the income spectrum—but still, some savings out there to support growth.  The states are very 

flush with cash, so there’s good reason to think that this will continue to be a reasonably strong 

economy. 

Now, the data sort of are showing that growth is going to be below trend this year.  We 

think of trend as being about 1.8 percent, or in that range.  We’re forecasting growth well below 

that, and most forecasters are.  But you’re right—there’s certainly a possibility that growth can 

be stronger than that.  And that’s a good thing, because that means the economy will be more 

resistant to a significant downturn.  But, of course, we are focused on the thing I started with, 

which is getting inflation back down to 2 percent.  We can’t fail to do that.  I mean, if we were to 

fail to do that, that would be the thing that would be most painful for the people that we serve.  

So for now, that has to be our overarching focus, and you see that, I think, in the SEP, in the 

levels of rates that we’ll be moving to reasonably quickly, assuming things turn out roughly in 

line with the SEP.  So that’s how we think about it. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Mike.  Thank you. 

MICHAEL MCKEE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  In a world of euphemisms that we live in 

here, with “below-trend growth” and “modest increase in unemployment,” I’m wondering if I can 

ask you a couple of direct questions for the American people.  Do the odds now favor, given where 

Page 15 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

you are and where you’re going with interest rates, favor a recession?  Four point four percent 

unemployment is about 1.3 million jobs.  Is that acceptable job loss?  And then, given that the data 

you look at is backward looking, and the lags in your policy are forward looking, and you don’t 

know what they are, how will you know, or will you know, if you’ve gone too far? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I don’t know what the odds are.  I think that there’s a very high 

likelihood that we’ll have a period of what I’ve mentioned is below-trend growth, by which I 

mean much lower growth, and we’re seeing that now.  So the median forecast, I think, this year 

among my colleagues and me was 0.2 percent growth.  So that’s very slow growth.  And then 

below trend next year.  I think the median was 1.2, also well below.  So that’s a slower, that’s a 

very slow level of growth, and it could give rise to increases in unemployment.  But I think 

that’s, so that is something that we think we need to have, and we think we need to have softer 

labor market conditions as well. 

We’re never going to say that there are too many people working, but the real point is 

this:  Inflation—what we hear from people when we meet with them is that they really are 

suffering from inflation.  And if we want to set ourselves up, really light the way to another 

period of a very strong labor market, we have got to get inflation behind us.  I wish there were a 

painless way to do that.  There isn’t.  So, what we need to do is get rates up to the point where 

we’re putting meaningful downward pressure on inflation, and that’s what we’re doing.  And we 

certainly don’t hope, we certainly haven’t given up the idea that we can have a relatively modest 

increase in unemployment.  Nonetheless, we need to complete this task. 

MICHAEL MCKEE.  But how will you know, or will you know, if you’ve gone too far? 

CHAIR POWELL.  It’s hard to hypothetically deal with that question.  I mean, again, our 

really tight focus now continues to be ongoing rate increases to get the policy rate up where it 

Page 16 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

needs to be.  And, as I said, you can look at this SEP as today’s estimate of where we think those 

rates would be.  Of course, they will evolve over time. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Chris Rugaber. 

CHRIS RUGABER.  Thanks.  Chris Rugaber, Associated Press.  I wanted to follow up 

with what you just mentioned about the labor market.  You’ve said several times that to have the 

labor market we want, we need price stability, and you suggested maybe there isn’t a tradeoff in 

the long run.  But in the short run, there is a lot of concern, as people have been expressing here, 

about higher unemployment as a result of these rate hikes or as a result of rate hikes.  So can you 

explain, though, what about high inflation now threatens the job market?  I mean, you seem to 

suggest inflation, high inflation, will eventually lead to a weaker job market.  So can you spell 

that out a little more for the general public on how that would work? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So, for starters, people are seeing their wage increases eaten up by 

inflation.  So if your family is one where you spend most of your paycheck, every paycheck 

cycle, on gas, food, transportation, clothing, basics of life, and prices go up the way they’ve been 

going up, you’re in trouble right away.  You don’t have a cushion, and this is very painful for 

people at the lower end of the income and wealth spectrum.  So that’s what we’re hearing from 

people is, you know, very much—that inflation is really hurting. 

So how do we get rid of inflation?  And, as I mentioned, it would be nice if there were a 

way to just wish it away, but there isn’t.  We have to get supply and demand back into alignment, 

and the way we do that is by slowing the economy.  Hopefully, we do that by slowing the 

economy, and we see some softening in labor market conditions, and we see a big contribution 

from supply-side improvements, and things like that.  But none of that is guaranteed.   

Page 17 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

In any case, we, our job is to deliver price stability, and I think—you can think of price 

stability as an asset that just delivers large benefits to society over a long period of time.  We 

really saw that for a long time.  The United States had 2 percent inflation, didn’t move around 

much, and that was enormously beneficial to the public that we serve.  And we have to get back 

to that and keep it for another long period of time.  To pull back from the task of doing that is, 

you’re just postponing—the record shows that if you postpone that, the delay is only likely to 

lead to more pain.  So I think we’re moving to do what we need to do and do our jobs, and that’s 

what you see us doing. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Edward. 

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  Thank you for taking the question, Mr. Chairman.  Edward 

Lawrence for Fox Business.  So you had said that Americans and businesses need to feel some 

economic pain as we go forward.  How long from here should Americans be prepared for that 

economic pain? 

CHAIR POWELL.  How long?  I mean, it really depends on how long it takes for wages 

and, more than that, prices to come down for inflation to come down.  And so what you see in 

our projections today is that inflation moves down significantly over the course of next year and 

then more the next year after that.  And I think once you’re on that path, that’s a good thing.  

And things will start to feel better to people—they’ll feel lower inflation, they’ll feel that the 

economy is improving.  And also, if our projections are close to right, you’ll see that the costs in 

unemployment are, they’re meaningful, and they’re certainly very meaningful to the people who 

lose their jobs.  And we talk about that in our meetings quite a lot. 

But, at the same time, we’d be setting the economy up for another long period—this era 

has been noted for very long expansions.  We’ve had three of the four longest in measured 

Page 18 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

history since we got inflation under control.  And that’s not an accident.  So when inflation is 

low and stable, you can have these 9, 10, 11—10-year, anyway, expansions, and you can see 

what we saw in 2018, ’19, and ’20, which was very low unemployment, the biggest wage gains 

going to people at the low end of the spectrum, the smallest racial gaps that we’ve seen since we 

started keeping track of that.  So we want to get back to that.  But, to get there, we’re going to 

have to get supply and demand back in alignment, and that’s going to take tight monetary policy 

for a period of time. 

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  As a follow-up, what is that economic pain in your mind?  Is 

it job losses?  Is it higher interest rates on credit cards?  What is that economic pain? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So it’s all of those things.  Higher interest rates, slower growth, and a 

softening labor market are all painful for the public that we serve.  But they’re not as painful as 

failing to restore price stability and then having to come back and do it down the road again and 

doing it at a time when, actually, now people have really come to expect high inflation.  If the 

concept of high inflation becomes entrenched in people’s economic thinking about their 

decisions, then sort of getting back to price stability—the cost of getting back to price stability 

just rises, and so we want to avoid that.  We want to act aggressively now and get this job done 

and keep at it until it’s done. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nicole, from CNN.   

NICOLE GOODKIND.  Thank you, Chairman Powell.  Nicole Goodkind, CNN 

Business.  Existing home sales have fallen for seven months straight, mortgage rates are at their 

highest level since 2008, yet mortgage demand increased this week, and housing prices are still 

elevated.  Now, at the end of your June press conference, you mentioned plans to reset the 

Page 19 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

housing market.  I was wondering if you could elaborate on what you mean when you say “reset” 

and what you think it will take to actually get there. 

CHAIR POWELL.  So when I say “reset,” I’m not looking at a particular, specific set of 

data or anything.  What I’m really saying is that we’ve had a time of a red-hot housing market all 

over the country, where, famously, houses were selling to the first buyer at 10 percent above the 

ask, before even seeing the house.  That kind of thing.  So there was a big imbalance between 

supply and demand.  Housing prices were going up at an unsustainably fast level.  So the 

deceleration in housing prices that we’re seeing should help bring sort of prices more closely in 

line with rents and other housing market fundamentals, and that’s a good thing. 

For the longer term, what we need is supply and demand to get better aligned so that 

housing prices go up at a reasonable level—at a reasonable pace—and that people can afford 

houses again.  And I think we—so we probably, in the housing market, have to go through a 

correction to get back to that place.  There’s also, there are also longer-run issues, though, with 

the housing market.  As you know, we’re—it’s difficult to find lots now close enough to cities 

and things like that, so builders are having a hard time getting zoning and lots and workers and 

materials and things like that.  But from a sort of business cycle standpoint, this difficult 

correction should put the housing market back into better balance. 

NICOLE GOODKIND.  Just to follow, though, shelter made up such a large part of this 

hot CPI report that we saw.  Do you think that there is a lag and that we will see that come down 

in the coming months?  Or do you think that there’s still this imbalance that needs to be 

addressed? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I think that shelter inflation is going to remain high for some time.  

We’re looking for it to come down, but it’s not exactly clear when that will happen.  So it may 

Page 20 of 21 

 
 
 
September 21, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

take some time, so I think, hope for the best, plan for the worst.  So I think, on shelter inflation, 

you’ve just got to assume that it’s going to remain pretty high for a while.   

MICHELLE SMITH.  Okay, we’ll go to Jean for the last question. 

JEAN YUNG.  Hi.  Jean Yung with Market News.  You’ve talked about the need to get 

real rates into positive territory, and you said earlier that policy is just moving into that territory 

now.  So I’m curious, how restrictive is rates at 4.6 percent expected—is that expected to be next 

year?  How restrictive? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I think if you look, when we get to—if we—let’s assume we do 

get to that level, which I think is likely.  What you’re going to do is, you’re going to adjust that 

for some forward-looking measure of inflation.  And that could be—you pick your measure.  It 

could be—there are all kinds of different things you could pick and you get—but what you’ll get 

is a positive number.  In all cases, you will get forward inflation expectations in the short term, I 

think, that are going to be, assuming that we’re doing our jobs appropriately, that will be 

significant. 

So you’ll have a positive [real] federal funds rate at that point, which could be 1 percent 

or so, but—I mean, I don’t know exactly what it would be.  But it would be significantly positive 

when we get to that level.  And let me say, we’ve written down what we think is a plausible path 

for the federal funds rate.  The path that we actually execute will be enough.  It will be enough to 

restore price stability.  So this is something that, as you can see, they’ve moved up, and we’re 

going to continue to watch incoming data and the evolving outlook and ask ourselves whether 

our policy is in the right place as we go. 

Thank you very much. 

Page 21 of 21