SOURCE: https://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/files/FOMCpresconf20220727.pdf

July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

Transcript of Chair Powell’s Press Conference 
July 27, 2022 

CHAIR POWELL.  Good afternoon.  My colleagues and I are strongly committed to 

bringing inflation back down, and we’re moving expeditiously to do so.  We have both the tools 

we need and the resolve it will take to restore price stability on behalf of American families and 

businesses. 

The economy and the country have been through a lot over the past two and a half years 

and have proved resilient.  It is essential that we bring inflation down to our 2 percent goal if we 

are to have a sustained period of strong labor market conditions that benefit all.   

From the standpoint of our congressional mandate to promote maximum employment and 

price stability, the current picture is plain to see:  The labor market is extremely tight, and 

inflation is much too high.  Against this backdrop, today the FOMC raised its policy interest rate 

by ¾ of a percentage point and anticipates that ongoing increases in the target range for the 

federal funds rate will be appropriate.  In addition, we are continuing the process of significantly 

reducing the size of our balance sheet.  And I’ll have more to say about today’s monetary policy 

actions after briefly reviewing economic developments.   

Recent indicators of spending and production have softened.  Growth in consumer 

spending has slowed significantly, in part reflecting lower real disposable income and tighter 

financial conditions.  Activity in the housing sector has weakened, in part reflecting higher 

mortgage rates.  And after a strong increase in the first quarter, business fixed investment also 

looks to have declined in the second quarter.     

Despite these developments, the labor market has remained extremely tight, with the 

unemployment rate near a 50-year low, job vacancies near historical highs, and wage growth 

elevated.  Over the past three months, employment rose by an average of 375,000 jobs per 

Page 1 of 29 

 
 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

month—down from the average pace seen earlier in the year, but still robust.  Improvements in 

labor market conditions have been widespread, including for workers at the lower end of the 

wage distribution as well as for African Americans and Hispanics.  Labor demand is very strong, 

while labor supply remains subdued, with the labor force participation rate little changed since 

January.  Overall, the continued strength of the labor market suggests that underlying aggregate 

demand remains solid. 

Inflation remains well above our longer-run goal of 2 percent.  Over the 12 months 

ending in May, total PCE prices rose 6.3 percent; excluding the volatile food and energy 

categories, core PCE prices rose 4.7 percent.  In June, the 12-month change in the consumer 

price index came in above expectations at 9.1 percent, and the change in the core CPI was 

5.9 percent.  Notwithstanding the recent slowdown in overall economic activity, aggregate 

demand appears to remain strong, supply constraints have been larger and longer lasting than 

anticipated, and price pressures are evident across a broad range of goods and services.  

Although prices for some commodities have turned down recently, the earlier surge in prices of 

crude oil and other commodities that resulted from Russia’s war on Ukraine has boosted prices 

for gasoline and food, creating additional upward pressure on inflation.  

The Fed’s monetary policy actions are guided by our mandate to promote maximum 

employment and stable prices for the American people.  My colleagues and I are acutely aware 

that high inflation imposes significant hardship, especially on those least able to meet the higher 

costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation.  We are highly attentive to the risks 

high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and we are strongly committed to returning 

inflation to our 2 percent objective.   

Page 2 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

At today’s meeting, the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by 

¾ of a percentage point, bringing the target range to 2¼ to 2½ percent.  And we’re continuing 

the process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheet, which plays an important role 

in firming the stance of monetary policy. 

Over coming months, we will be looking for compelling evidence that inflation is moving 

down, consistent with inflation returning to 2 percent.  We anticipate that ongoing increases in 

the target range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate; the pace of those increases will 

continue to depend on the incoming data and the evolving outlook for the economy.  Today’s 

increase is the—in the target range is the second 75 basis point increase in as many meetings.  

While another unusually large increase could be appropriate at our next meeting, that is a 

decision that will depend on the data we get between now and then.  We will continue to make 

our decisions meeting by meeting and communicating—and communicate our thinking as clearly 

as possible.  As the stance of monetary policy tightens further, it likely will become appropriate 

to slow the pace of increases while we assess how our cumulative policy adjustments are 

affecting the economy and inflation.  Our overarching focus is using our tools to bring demand 

into better balance with supply in order to bring inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to 

keep longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. 

Making appropriate monetary policy in this uncertain environment requires a recognition 

that the economy often involves—evolves in unexpected ways.  Inflation has obviously surprised 

to the upside over the past year, and further surprises could be in store.  We therefore will need 

to be nimble in responding to incoming data and the evolving outlook.  And we will strive to 

avoid adding uncertainty in what is already an extraordinarily challenging and uncertain time.  

We are highly attentive to inflation risks and determined to take the measures necessary to return 

Page 3 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

inflation to our 2 percent longer-run goal.  This process is likely to involve a period of below-

trend economic growth and some softening in labor market conditions.  But such outcomes are 

likely necessary to restore price stability and to set the stage for achieving maximum 

employment and stable prices over the longer run.   

To conclude:  We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and 

businesses across the country.  Everything we do is in service to our public mission.  We at the 

Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum-employment and price-stability goals.  

Thank you.  I look forward to your questions.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Let’s start with Rachel. 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Thanks for taking our questions.  Rachel Siegel 

from the Washington Post.  I’m wondering if you can walk us through your thinking around the 

decision not to go for a full percentage point increase.  We saw a ramp-up after the May CPI 

report came in hotter than usual and then, obviously, the June figure did, too.  Was there any 

discussion of a stronger hike at this meeting?  Yes.  Thank you.  

CHAIR POWELL.  Sure.  So we did judge that a 75 basis point increase was the right 

magnitude in light of the data and in the context of the ongoing increases in the policy rate that 

we’ve been making.  I’d say that we wouldn’t hesitate to, to make an even larger move than we 

did today if the Committee were to conclude that that was—that that were appropriate.  That was 

not the case at this meeting.  There was very broad support for the move that we made.  

You mentioned the—the June meeting.  We, we had said many times that we were 

prepared to move aggressively, more aggressively, if inflation continued to disappoint.  And 

that’s why we did move to a more aggressive pace at the June meeting, as we said we would do.  

Page 4 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

At this meeting, we continued at that more aggressive pace, as inflation has continued to 

disappoint, in the form of the June CPI reading.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Colby. 

COLBY SMITH.  Thank you so much for taking our questions.  Colby Smith with the 

Financial Times.  As the Committee considers the policy path forward, how will it weigh the 

expected decline in headline inflation, which might come as a result of the drop in commodity 

prices, against the fact that we are likely to see some persistence in core readings, in particular?  

And given that potential tension and signs of, you know, any kind of activity weakening here, 

how has the Committee’s thinking changed on how far into restrictive territory rates might need 

to go?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So I guess I’d start by saying we’ve been saying we would move 

expeditiously to get to the range of neutral.  And I think we’ve done that now.  We’re at—we’re 

at 2.25 to 2.5 [percent], and that’s right in the range of what we think is neutral.  So the question 

is, how are we thinking about the path forward?  So one thing that hasn’t changed is that—won’t 

change—is that our focus is continuing to—is going to continue to be on using our tools to bring 

demand back into better balance with supply in order to bring inflation back down.  That’ll 

continue to be our overarching focus.  

We also said that we expect ongoing rate hikes will be appropriate and that we’ll make 

decisions meeting by meeting.  So what are we going to be looking at?  You know, we’ll be 

looking at the incoming data, as I mentioned, and that’ll start with economic activity.  Are we 

seeing the slowdown that we—the slowdown in economic activity—that we think we need?  And 

there’s some evidence that we are at this time.  Of course, we’ll be looking at labor market 

Page 5 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

conditions.  And we’ll be asking whether we see the alignment between supply and demand 

getting better, getting closer.   

Of course, we’ll be looking closely at inflation.  You mentioned headline and core.  Our 

mandate is for headline, of course; it’s not for core.  But we look at core because core is, is 

actually a better indicator of headline and of all inflation going forward.  So we’ll be—we’ll be 

looking at both.  And we’ll be looking at them for—at those both, really—for what they’re 

saying about the outlook rather than just simply for, for what they say.  But we’ll be asking:  Do 

we see inflationary pressures declining?  Do we see actual readings of inflation coming down?  

So, in light of all that data, the question we’ll be asking is whether the stance of policy we 

have is sufficiently restrictive to bring inflation back down to our 2 percent target.  And it’s also 

worth noting that these rate hikes have been large, and they’ve come—they’ve come quickly.  

And it’s likely that their full effect has not been felt by the economy.  So there’s probably some 

additional tightening, significant additional tightening, in the pipeline.  

So where are we going with this?  I think the best—I think the Committee broadly feels 

that we need to get policy to at least to a moderately restrictive level.  And maybe the best data 

point for that would be what we wrote down in our SEP at the—at the June meeting.  So I think 

the median [federal funds rate] for the end of this year, the median would’ve been between 3¼ 

and 3½ [percent].  And, then, people wrote down 50 basis points higher than that for 2023.  So 

that’s—even though that’s now six weeks old, I guess, that’s—that’s the most recent reading.  Of 

course, we’ll update that reading at the—at the September meeting in eight weeks.  So that’s how 

we’re thinking about it.  

As I mentioned, as it relates to September, I said that another unusually large increase 

could be appropriate, but that’s not a decision we’re making now.  It’s one that we’ll make based 

Page 6 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

on the data we see.  And we’re going to be making decisions meeting by meeting.  We think 

it’s—we think it’s time to just go to a meeting-by-meeting basis and not provide, you know, the 

kind of clear guidance that we had provided on the way to neutral. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nick. 

NICK TIMIRAOS.  Nick Timiraos of the Wall Street Journal.  Chair Powell, you’ve said 

that your policy works through influencing expectations and that policy needs to be at least 

moderately restrictive, which means you need financial conditions to stay tight.  Futures market 

pricing currently implies you will raise rates this year along the lines of your June SEP but then 

lower them a few months later next year.  Are these expectations consistent with the need to keep 

financial conditions tight in order to moderate purchasing power and bring inflation back to 

2 percent? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I’m going to start by pointing out that it’s very hard to say with 

any confidence in normal times—in normal times—what the economy’s going to be doing in 

6 or 12 months.  And to try to predict what the appropriate monetary policy would respond—

response would be—of course, we do that in the SEP, but, nonetheless, you’ve got to take any 

estimates of what rates will be next year with a grain of salt, because there’s so much 

uncertainty.  

These are not normal times.  There’s significantly more uncertainty now about the path 

ahead than I think there ordinarily is, and, ordinarily, it’s quite high.  So, again, I would—the 

best data, the only data point I have for you really is the June SEP, which I think is just the most 

recent thing that the Committee’s done.  Since then, inflation has come in higher; economic 

activity has come in weaker than expected.   

Page 7 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

But at the same time, I would say that’s probably the best estimate of where the 

Committee’s thinking is still, which is that we would get to a moderately restrictive level by the 

end of this year—by which I mean somewhere between 3 and 3½ percent—and that when the 

Committee sees further rate increases in 2023, as I mentioned, we’ll update that, of course, at the 

September meeting.  But that’s really the best I can do on that.  

NICK TIMIRAOS.  You said inflation had been a little bit hotter than anticipated.  Has 

your view of the terminal rate changed since June?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So I wouldn’t say it was—I think we didn’t expect a good reading, 

but this one—this one was even worse than expected, I would say.  I don’t talk about my own 

personal estimate of, of what the terminal rate would be.  I do—I will write down that in—it’s 

going to evolve.  Obviously, it has evolved over the course—I think, for all participants, it has 

evolved over the course of the year as we learn how persistent inflation’s going to be.  

And by the time of the September meeting, we will have seen two more CPI readings and 

two more labor market readings and a significant amount of readings about economic activity 

and perhaps geopolitical developments, who knows.  It’ll be—it’ll be a lot.  It’s an eight-week 

intermeeting period, so I think we’ll see quite a lot of data.  And we’ll make our decision at that 

meeting based on that data.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jeanna. 

JEANNA SMIALEK.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Thanks for taking our questions.  Jeanna 

Smialek, New York Times.  You kind of alluded to this earlier, but I wonder in the event that you 

see several months of very weak headline inflation numbers because oil prices are coming down 

so much, but core inflation continues to be strong or even picks up, I wonder how you would 

think about that. 

Page 8 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So it’s hard to deal with hypotheticals, but I just would say this.  We, 

you know, we would look at both, and we would ask—we’d be asking ourselves, are we 

confident that inflation is on a path down to 2 percent?  That’s really the question.  And we’ll be 

making—you know, our policy stance will be set at a level, ultimately, at which we are confident 

that inflation is going to be moving down to 2 percent.  So you would—it would depend on a lot 

of things.  

Of course, as I mentioned, core inflation is a better predictor of inflation going forward.  

Headline inflation tends to be volatile.  So, in ordinary times, you, you look through volatile 

moves in commodities.  The problem with the current situation is that, that if you have a 

sustained period of supply shocks, those can actually start to undermine or to work—to work on 

de-anchoring inflation expectations.  The public doesn’t distinguish between core and headline 

inflation in their thinking.  So it’s something we have to take into consideration in our 

policymaking even though our tools don’t really work on, on some aspects of this, which are the 

supply-side issues.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Steve. 

STEVE LIESMAN.  Steve Liesman, CNBC.  Thanks for taking my question, Mr. 

Chairman.  Earlier this week, the President said, “We are not going to be in a recession.” So I 

have two questions off of that.  Do you share the President’s confidence in not being in a 

recession?  And, second, how would or would not a recession change policy?  Is it a bright line, 

sir, where, where contraction of the economy would be a turning point in policy?  Or is there 

some amount of contraction of the economy the Committee would be willing to abide in its effort 

to reduce inflation?  

Page 9 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So, as I—as I mentioned, we think it’s necessary to have growth 

slow down.  And growth is going to be slowing down this year for a couple of reasons, one of 

which is that you’re coming off of the very high growth of the reopening year of 2021.  You’re 

also seeing tighter monetary policy.  And you should see some slowing.  

We actually think we need a period of growth below potential in order to create some 

slack so that—so that the supply side can catch up.  We also think that there will be, in all 

likelihood, some softening in labor market conditions.  And those are things that we expect.  And 

we think that they’re probably necessary if we were to have—to get inflation—if we were to be 

able to get inflation back down on a path to 2 percent and ultimately get there. 

STEVE LIESMAN.  The question was whether you see a recession coming and how that 

might or might not change policy.  Thanks. 

CHAIR POWELL.  So we’re going to be—again, we’re going to be focused on getting 

inflation back down.  And we—as I’ve said on other occasions, price stability is really the 

bedrock of the economy.  And nothing works in the economy without price stability.  We can’t 

have a strong labor market without price stability for an extended period of time.  

We all want to get back to the kind of labor market we had before the pandemic, where 

differences between, you know, racial and gender differences and that kind of thing were at 

historic minimums, where participation was high, where inflation was low.  We want to get back 

to that, but that’s not happening.  That’s not going to happen without, without restoring price 

stability.  So that’s something we see as, as something that we simply must do.  And we think 

that in the—we don’t see it as a tradeoff with, with the employment mandate.  We see it as a way 

to facilitate the sustained achievement of the employment mandate in the longer term.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Howard. 

Page 10 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Howard Schneider with Reuters.  Particularly in regard to 

expectations, it’s been said the last few months that the risks of doing too little outweighed the 

lists—the risks of doing too much.  Does that remain the bias?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So we’re trying to do just the right amount, right?  We’re not—we’re 

not trying to have a recession.  And we don’t think we have to.  We think that there’s a path for 

us to be able to bring inflation down while sustaining a strong labor market, as I mentioned, 

along with—in all likelihood—some, some softening in labor market conditions.  So that is—

that’s what we’re trying to achieve, and we continue to think that there’s a path to that.  We 

know that the path has, has clearly narrowed, really based on events that are outside of our 

control.  And it may narrow further.  

So, you know, I do think—as I said just now—that restoring price stability is just 

something that we have to do.  There, there isn’t an option to fail to do that because that is the 

thing that enables you to have a strong labor market over time.  Without restoring price stability, 

you won’t be able, over the medium and longer term, to actually have a strong—a sustained 

period of very strong labor market conditions.  So, of course, we serve both sides of the dual 

mandate, but we actually see them as well aligned on this. 

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  But as a—as a follow-on to that, given the uncertainty and 

that sort of paradoxical flow of data you’ve been getting, if you’re going to make a mistake, 

would you rather make the mistake on doing too much, raising too much, than raising too little?  

CHAIR POWELL.  We’re trying not to make a mistake.  Let me put it this way:  We do 

see that there are two-sided risks.  There would be the risk of doing too much and, you know, 

imposing more of a downturn on the economy than, than was necessary, but the risk—the risk of 

doing too little and leaving the economy with this entrenched inflation, it only raises the cost.  If 

Page 11 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

you fail to deal with it in the near term, it only raises the cost of, of dealing with it later to the 

extent people start to see it as just part of their economic lives.   

They start to factor high inflation into their decisions—when that—on a sustained basis.  

When that starts to really happen, and we don’t think that’s happened yet, but when that starts to 

happen, it just gets that much harder.  And the pain will be that much greater.  So I really do 

think that it’s important that we—that we address this now and get it done.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Neil.  

NEIL IRWIN.  Thanks, Chair Powell.  Neil Irwin from Axios.  To build a little bit on 

what Steve was asking, do you believe the United States is currently in a recession?  Will the 

GDP reading tomorrow affect that judgment one way or the other?  And has your assessment of 

the risk of recession changed any in recent weeks?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So I don’t—I do not think the U.S. is currently in a recession.  And 

the reason is, there are just too many areas of the economy that are—that are performing, you 

know, too well.  And, of course, I would point to the labor market, in particular.  As I mentioned, 

it’s true that growth is slowing for reasons that we understand.  Really, the growth was 

extraordinarily high last year, 5½ percent.  We would have expected growth to slow.  There’s 

also more slowing going on now.  

But if you look at the labor market, you’ve got growth—I think, payroll jobs averaging 

450,000 per month.  That’s a remarkably strong level for, for this state of, of affairs.  The 

unemployment rate at near a 50-year low at 3.6 percent.  All of the wage measures that we track 

are running very strong.  So this is a very strong labor market, and it’s just not consistent with—

you know, 2.7 million people hired in the first half of the year.  It doesn’t make sense that the 

Page 12 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

economy would be in recession with, with this kind of thing happening.  So I don’t think the U.S. 

economy’s in recession right now.  

NEIL IRWIN.  GDP?  GDP tomorrow? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Ah, haven’t seen it, and, and we’ll just have to see what it says.  I 

don’t—I mean, I would say, generally, the GDP numbers do have a tendency to be revised pretty 

significantly.  It’s just—it’s just that it’s very hard—it’s very hard to cumulate [to an estimate of] 

U.S. GDP.  It’s a large economy.  And a lot of—a lot of work and judgment goes into that.  But 

you tend to take first GDP reports, I think, with a—with a grain of salt.  But, of course, it’s 

something we’ll be looking at.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Victoria.  

VICTORIA GUIDA.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Victoria Guida with Politico.  I wanted to ask 

about the new conflict-of-interest rules that you all rolled out.  Some senators have written 

asking for those rules to have more teeth and to have sort of more transparency about Fed’s 

financial—the Fed officials’ financial activity.  I was wondering if you could speak to that and 

whether you intend on, you know, toughening those rules in any way.  

CHAIR POWELL.  So those are—those are the toughest rules in place, you know, at any 

comparable institution that I’m aware of.  We think—you know, we’ve thought about this 

carefully, and we put them in place.  And we’re building the infrastructure so that—so that, you 

know, the enforcement will be tight, that, actually, you won’t be able to make trades unless 

they’re precleared.  And the amount of trades you make, they’ll have to be 45 days or more 

before any FOMC meeting.  It’s just—I think we’ve really, you know, created a very strong and 

robust set of rules that will, you know, support public trust in the institution.  And, again, we’re 

just now—the system is just now up and running.  And I’m proud of what we did.  

Page 13 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Catarina. 

CATARINA SARAIVA.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Hi.  Catarina Saraiva, Bloomberg News.  I 

wanted to ask a little bit more about the 75 basis points versus 50 versus 25.  Can you talk a little 

bit about what, what kind of goes into your thinking for, you know, making the decision on how 

much to raise rates and, you know, just talking about a very large amount that you alluded to?  

Could that possibly be 100 basis points?  And then, kind of along those lines, is there any sort of 

weakness in the economy, outside of inflation measures, that would lead you to slow your 

hiking pace? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I’m going to—I’m going to take that as a question about the next 

meeting and thereafter.  So, as I mentioned, we’re going to be looking at all of those things:  

activity, labor market, inflation.  And we’re going to be thinking about our policy stance and 

where does it really need to be.  And I also mentioned that, as this process—now that we’re at 

neutral—as the process goes on, at some point, it will be appropriate to, to slow down.  And we 

haven’t made a decision when that point is, but intuitively that makes sense, right?  We’ve been 

front-end-loading these very large rate increases, and now we’re getting closer to where we need 

to be.  So that’s how we’re thinking about it.  

And in terms of September, we’re going—we’re going to watch the data and the evolving 

outlook very carefully and factor in everything and make a decision in September about what to 

do.  And I’m not really going to provide any specific guidance about what that might be.  So, you 

know, but I mentioned that we might do another unusually large rate increase.  But that’s not a 

decision that we’ve made at all.  

So we are—you know, we’re going to be guided by the data.  And I think you can still 

think of the, the destination as broadly in line with the September—sorry, the June SEP, because 

Page 14 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

it’s only six weeks old.  And sometimes, sometimes SEPs can get old really quick.  I think in this 

one—this one I would say is probably, probably the best guide we have as to where the 

Committee thinks it needs to get at the end of the year and then into next year.  So I would point 

you to that.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Chris.  

CHRISTOPHER RUGABER.  Hi.  Thank you.  Chris Rugaber, Associated Press.  I 

wanted to ask about right now, there’s a sort of growing gap between the Fed’s preferred 

measure of inflation, the PCE, PCE index, and the one that’s followed by the public, the CPI, of 

course.  How do you expect to handle this divergence if the PCE starts to come down enough for 

you to consider slowing rate hikes, even if the public is still seeing much higher CPI ratings?  

Thank you.  

CHAIR POWELL.  So it’s an interesting, interesting situation.  Of course, we’ve, we’ve 

long used PCE because we think it’s just better at capturing the inflation that people actually face 

in their lives.  And I think that that view is pretty widely understood.  That said, the public really 

reads about CPI.  And the difference really is because the CPI has higher weights on things like 

food, gasoline, motor vehicles, and housing than the PCE index does.  And so that accounts for a 

lot of the difference.  However, over time, they tend to come together.  

You know, we—given the importance in the public eye of CPI, we are calling it out and 

noticing it and everything like that.  But remember, we do target PCE.  That is because we think 

it’s a better measure.  They will come together eventually.  The typical gap was really about 

25 basis points for a very long time.  And if it went—if it got to 40 basis points, that would be 

very noticeable.  And now it’s—now it’s much larger than that because of the things I 

Page 15 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

mentioned.  So we’ll be watching both, but, again, the one that we think is the best measure 

always has been PCE, at least since I think we—some 20 plus years ago—moved to PCE.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Michael McKee. 

MICHAEL MCKEE.  I’d like to weave a couple of things together, Mr. Chairman.  

Michael McKee from Bloomberg TV and Radio.  You said that the destination pretty much 

remains the same in terms of your end-of-the-year target.  But where are you in the journey?  

We’ve now seen the federal stimulus programs end.  You mentioned consumer spending, 

business investment have slowed.  Are they moving at a pace you would expect?  Or is demand 

still greater than supply—too much greater than supply that you need to do significantly more?  

And I ask because there are lags in the impact of monetary policy, as you mentioned.  And a lot 

of this might hit in 2023.  The strong dollar effect may hit in 2023, when the economy might be 

weak.  How, how do you know where you are and where you think you need to get to?  

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, just talking about demand for a second:   As I mentioned in my 

remarks, I think you pretty clearly do see a slowing now in demand in the second quarter—

consumer spending, business fixed investment, housing, places like that.  I think, you know, 

people widely looked at the first-quarter numbers and thought they didn’t make sense and might 

have been misleading in terms of the overall direction of the economy—[that was] not, not true 

of the second quarter.  But at the same time, you have this labor market.  

So there are plenty of experiences where GDP has been reported as weak and the labor 

market as strong.  And the economy has gone right through that and been fine.  So that—that’s 

happened many times.  And it used to happen—if you remember, in the first quarter of every 

year, for several years in a row, GDP was negative, and the labor market was moving on just 

Page 16 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

fine.  And it turned out to just be measurement error.  It was called residual seasonality.  We 

don’t know the situation. 

The truth is, though, we, we think that demand is moderating.  We do.  How much is it 

moderating?  We’re not sure.  We’re going to have to watch the data carefully.  There are—there 

is a great deal of money on people’s balance sheets that they can spend.  The unemployment rate 

is very low.  The labor market’s very hot.  There are many, many job openings.  Wages are high.  

So it’s the kind of thing where you think that the—that the economy should actually be, be doing 

pretty well in the second half of the year.  But we’ll have to see.  We don’t know that because 

you do see a marked slowing in the second quarter that does—that is fairly broad.  So we’ll be 

watching that.  We’ll be watching that.  Of course, as I mentioned, we do want to see demand 

running below potential for a sustained period to create slack and, and give inflation a chance to 

come down.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nicole. 

NICOLE GOODKIND.  Hi, thank you, Chairman.  Nicole Goodkind, CNN Business.  

When does the Committee expect to see a meaningful slowdown in the labor market?  And how 

much weakness will it accept with regard to slower job growth and higher unemployment before 

it pauses or begins to think about cutting rates?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So I think you’re already seeing—you’ve seen, in the labor market, 

what you’ve seen is a decline from very high levels of job creation last year and earlier this year 

to modestly slower job creation—still, still quite robust, as I mentioned.  So you’re seeing that.  

You’re seeing some increase—some increase in initial claims from insurance, although that may 

actually have to do with seasonal adjustments.  We’re not sure that that’s actually real.  

Page 17 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

There’s some evidence that wages—if you look at average hourly earnings, they appear 

to be moderating, not so yet from the other wage measures.  And we’ll be getting the 

employment compensation index measurement, I think, on Friday, I guess.  And that’s a very 

important one because it adjusts for compensation—composition.  

So I’d say you—and also, anecdotally, you hear much—the sort of level of concern on 

the part of businesses that they simply can’t find workers is probably down a little bit from what 

it was, say, for example, late in the latter parts of last year.  So there’s a feeling that the labor 

market is moving back into balance.  If you look at—if you look at job openings or quits, you see 

them moving sideways or perhaps a little bit down.  But it’s only the beginning of an adjustment.   

But I think most—also, if you look at—I mean, once you start citing these things, you 

can’t stop.  If you look at the household survey, you see much lower job creation, and the 

household survey can be quite volatile, but it has no jobs created in the last three months.  So that 

might be a signal that job creation’s actually a little bit slower than we’re seeing in the—in the 

establishment survey.  So executive summary [is]:  I would say there’s some evidence that labor 

demand may be slowing a bit—labor supply, not so much.  We have been disappointed that labor 

force participation really hasn’t moved up since January.  That may be related to yet another big 

wave of COVID.  And there’s evidence that that’s the case.  But—So we’re not seeing much in 

the way of labor supply.  Nonetheless, I would say some, some progress on demand and supply 

getting back in alignment. 

NICOLE GOODKIND.  And then how much weakness would you be willing to accept 

before you think about pausing rate cuts? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I think we’re looking—we’re going to be looking at, at inflation 

as well.  You know, as I mentioned, we need to see inflation coming down.  We need to be 

Page 18 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

confident that inflation is going to get back down to mandate-consistent levels.  That’s not 

something we can avoid doing.  That really needs to happen.  

And, but we do think, though, that the labor market can adjust because of the huge 

overhang of job openings, of excess demand, really.  There should be able to be an adjustment 

that would have lower than—perhaps lower-than-expected increases in unemployment—lower 

than would be expected in the ordinary course of events because the level—the ratio of, of 

vacancies to unemployed is just out of keeping with historical experience.  And that suggests that 

this time could be different.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Edward Lawrence. 

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  Thanks, Mr. Chairman.  Edward Lawrence from Fox 

Business.  So you said that the path may be narrowed to avoiding a recession.  So how, how 

close are we to a recession?  And then how do forecasts of possible recession from banks and 

economists, how does that make a soft landing you’ve talked about more difficult?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So as, as I mentioned, it doesn’t seem that the U.S. economy is in 

recession right now.  And I think you do see weakening, some slowdown—let’s put it that way—

in growth.  And you see it across some of the categories that I mentioned.  But there’s also just 

the very strong data coming out of the labor market, still.  So, overall, you would say that, in all 

probability, demand is still strong, and, and the economy is still on track to continue to grow this 

year.  But the slowdown in the second quarter is notable.  And we’re—you know, we’re going to 

be watching that carefully.  Sorry, what was the—  

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  Forecasts.  You know, how do bank forecasts of possible 

recessions, economists, does that affect the soft landing?  

Page 19 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, you know, we’ve said since the beginning, I think, that, that 

having a soft landing is what we’re aiming for.  Of course, that has to be our goal.  It is our goal.  

And we’ll keep trying to achieve it.  I think—I do think events—at the beginning, we said it was 

not going to be easy.  It was going to be quite challenging to do that.  It’s unusual.  It’s an 

unusual event.  It’s not a typical event, given where we are.  

If there is a path to it, and we think there is, it is the one I mentioned, that the labor 

market actually is—has such a large amount of surplus demand that you could see—you could 

see that demand coming down in a way that didn’t translate into a big increase in unemployment 

as you would expect in the ordinary course because, frankly, the imbalance is so much greater.  

And, but we don’t know that.  I mean, this is a—this is a case of first impression.  So anyone 

who is really sure that it’s impossible or really sure that it will happen is probably 

underestimating the level of uncertainty.  And so I would certainly say it’s an uncertain, 

uncertain thing.  Nonetheless, it’s our goal to achieve it, and we’ll keep trying to do that.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jean. 

JEAN YUNG.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Jean Yung with Market News.  I wanted to 

ask about the balance sheet reduction program.  It’s been working for a couple months now and 

in a different environment than the last time the Fed did it.  What are you learning about how it’s 

working and how markets are reacting?  And is reaching the minimum level of reserves needed 

in the system still several years away at the current pace?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So we think it’s working fine.  As you know, we, we tapered up into 

it.  And, and in September, we’ll go to full strength.  And the markets seem to have accepted it.  

By all assessments, the markets should be able to absorb this.  And we expect that’ll be the case.  

Page 20 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

So I would say the plan is broadly on track.  It’s a little bit slow to get going because some of 

these trades don’t settle until—for a bit of time.  But it’ll be picking up steam.  

So I guess your second question was getting—the process of getting back down to the 

new equilibrium will take a while.  And that time, it’s hard to be precise, but, you know, the 

model would suggest that it could be between two, two and a half years, that kind of thing.  And 

this is a much faster pace than the last time.  Balance sheet’s much, much bigger than it was.  But 

we looked at this carefully, and we thought that this, this was the sensible pace.  And we have no 

reason to think it’s not.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Brian. 

BRIAN CHEUNG.  Hi, Chairman Powell.  Brian Cheung, Yahoo Finance.  Looking at 

financial conditions, it seems like the tightening has slowed as of late with the 10 year coming 

down, 30-year fixed mortgage rates also going a bit sideways, when we talk about a hot housing 

market still.  Just wondering if you find financial conditions tight enough, especially as you 

continue to raise rates.  

CHAIR POWELL.  So a big piece of that is inflation expectations—you know, 

breakevens coming down, which, you know, is a good thing.  It’s a good thing that markets do 

seem to have confidence in, in the Committee’s commitment to getting inflation back down to 

2 percent.  So we like to see market-based, you know, readings of inflation expectations come 

down.  You know, broader financial conditions have tightened, tightened a good bit.  I mean, the 

way this works is we, we set our policy, and financial conditions react, and then financial 

conditions are what affects the economy.  

And we don’t control that second step.  We’re just going to do what we think needs to be 

done.  We’re going to—we’re going to get our policy rate to a level where we’re confident that 

Page 21 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

inflation will be moving back down to 2 percent.  Confident.  So that’s how we’re going to take 

it.  And, of course, we’ll be watching financial conditions to see that they are appropriately tight 

and that they’re having the effect that we would hope they’re having, which is to see demand 

moderate and inflationary pressures recede and, ultimately, inflation come down.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Greg.  

GREG ROBB.  Thank you, Chair Powell.  Greg Robb from MarketWatch.  I wonder if 

you can go back a little bit in time to before there was this outbreak of inflation, when the 

Committee put in place forward guidance on tapering asset purchases.  I think it was December 

2020.  There’s a recent speech by Fed Governor Waller talking about that and saying that maybe 

that was too tight, that kind of condition, and it put you a little bit behind—not his words but 

maybe, you know, were kind of late to react to some of that inflation.  So could you talk about 

that decision, and have you looked at it in hindsight at all?  Thank you.  

CHAIR POWELL.  So, yes, we said that we wouldn’t lift off until we had basically 

achieved our dual-mandate goals.  And the reason we did it in real time was that, the first look at 

the new framework that we’d rolled out, plenty of people were saying, “It’s not credible.  You’ll 

never get inflation to 2 percent.”  Some of our critics now who say inflation’s too tight—too high 

were the same ones who were saying, “You’ll never get to 2 percent.”  Well, but anyway, that’s 

what happened.  

So we, we thought we needed to really make a strong statement with that.  It wasn’t part 

of the framework.  The December ’20 guidance was not part of our overall new framework.  It 

was just guidance that we put in place.  So I would say two things.  One, I don’t think that that 

has materially changed the situation.  But I have to admit, I don’t think I would do that again.  I 

don’t think I would do that again.  We—you know, ultimately, the situation evolved in a highly 

Page 22 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

unexpected way for all of us.  And, you know, maybe the learning is that leave a little more 

flexibility than that.  

But did it matter in the end?  You know, we—if you look at—I really don’t think it did.  

I’m not sure it would’ve mattered if we’d been raising rates three months earlier.  Does anybody 

think that would’ve made a big difference?  I mean, lots of central banks were raising rates three 

months earlier, and it didn’t matter.  I mean, this is a—this is a global phenomenon that’s 

happening now—admittedly, different in the United States, but anyway.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nancy. 

GREG ROBB.  Can I follow up? 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Sorry about that, Greg. 

GREG ROBB.  Just a lot of people talk about that time, and they talk about a taper 

tantrum.  I know you haven’t talked about it too much but that you were worried at the time 

about repeating that taper tantrum that you had experienced as a Governor.  So was that part of 

that?  Where did that fit into all those decisions?  Thank you.  

CHAIR POWELL.  So I think we learned—there’ve been multiple taper tantrums, right?  

So there was the famous one in 2013.  There’s what happened at the December ’18 meeting, 

where, you know, markets can ignore developments around the balance sheet for years on end 

and then suddenly react very sharply.  So we just had developed a practice of moving predictably 

and doing it in steps and things like that.  It was just like that’s how we did it.  And so we did it 

that way this time.  We were—we were careful to, to take steps and communicate and all that 

kind of thing.  Yes, we were trying to avoid a tantrum because they can be quite destructive.  

They can tighten financial conditions and knock the economy off kilter.  And, you know, when it 

happens, you have to—really, in both ’13 and ’18, it really had consequences for the real 

Page 23 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

economy, you know, two, three, four months later.  So we were trying to avoid that.  That was 

part of it.  

Again, I don’t think that’s—the real issue of 2020 and ’21 was just trying to understand 

what was happening with the reopening economy.  That, that was where the big uncertainty was.  

And, you know, our view was that these supply-side issues would get better:  that people would 

go back to work, that labor force participation would come back, everyone would get vaccinated, 

schools would open, kids would be in school, and labor force participation would jump back up.  

That’s what we were—that was very broadly thought to be the case:  these supply-side issues 

would get solved reasonably quickly.  And they just haven’t.  They still haven’t.  

So that’s really the learning, I think, is around how complicated these supply-side issues 

can be.  We haven’t seen this before in a long, long time.  And so that’s really, you know, what 

accounts for the pace at which we moved, and we did.  When inflation changed direction, really, 

in October, we’ve moved quickly since then.  I think people would agree.  But before then, 

inflation was coming down month by month.  And, you know, we kind of thought we had the 

story—probably had the story right.  But then, I think in October, you started to see a range of 

data that said “No.  This is a much stronger economy and much higher inflation than we’ve been 

thinking.”  And, again, we’ve pivoted, and here we are.  

GREG ROBB.  Thanks. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nancy. 

NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER.  Nancy Marshall-Genzer with Marketplace.  Chair 

Powell, I just want to pin you down a little bit more on the issue of recession.  So if we get a 

negative GDP number tomorrow for the second quarter, would the Fed consider the U.S. in a 

recession?  And just remind us, what is your definition for the start of a recession? 

Page 24 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So the Fed doesn’t make a—doesn’t make a judgment on that.  You 

know, we’re focused on the dual mandate and using our tools to achieve maximum employment 

and price stability.  We don’t—we don’t say “There is now a recession” and that kind of thing.  

So that wouldn’t be something we’d do.  We would look at the data tomorrow—and no doubt, 

we’ll look at it very carefully—and draw whatever implications we can.  

As I mentioned, though, you know, if you think about what an inflation—sorry, what a 

recession really is, it’s a broad-based decline across many industries that, you know, is sustained 

for more than a couple of months, and there are a bunch of specific tests in it.  And it just 

doesn’t—this just doesn’t seem like that now.  What we have right now doesn’t seem like that.  

And the real reason is that the labor market is just sending such a signal of economic strength 

that it makes you really question the GDP data.  But, again, that’s not a decision that we—that 

we make.  And we won’t—we won’t reach a conclusion one way or another on that.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Simon. 

SIMON RABINOVITCH.  Thank you very much.  Simon Rabinovitch with the 

Economist.  You said that some softening in the labor market is needed.  Within the Fed, there 

are staff economists who’ve argued that NAIRU, the noninflationary rate of unemployment, 

might be as high as 5 to 6 percent right now, which obviously is a lot higher than the current rate 

of 3.6.  What’s your assessment of NAIRU?  Is that something that came up in discussion with 

the Committee? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I think, broadly, a lot of economists think that the—that the 

natural rate of unemployment will have moved up to some significant extent above where we 

think it was before.  And the reason is there’s—it’s the usual matching issue, where matching has 

become less effective, and that kind of thing when you have the kind of turbulent downturn and 

Page 25 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

the big switches in demand from services to goods and all that.  So it could be higher.  And my 

own instinct is that the natural rate of unemployment is higher.  Of course, I would add that we 

don’t know it.  We can never know where these star variables are in real time with any 

confidence.  But I would say it must have moved up materially.  

But the other side of that is, as all these jobs get created and people go back to work and 

unemployment is so low, I think you could, in principle, you could see it coming back down 

pretty significantly.  And that would also, by the way, take pressure off of inflation because it’s 

that gap—it’s the gap between actual unemployment and the—and the natural rate that really is 

relevant for, you know, the negative slack we have in the economy with the overtight labor 

market.  So if you were to—you wouldn’t observe this.  It’s an unobservable, but you could 

actually be seeing inflationary pressures coming down if that does happen.  And we don’t—we 

don’t control that.  But that’s something that, logically, if the pandemic and the disorder in the 

labor market caused the natural rate to move up, then as the labor market settles down, in 

principle, you should see it move back down.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jeff. 

JEFF COX.  Thank you, Chair Powell.  Jeff Cox from CNBC.com.  Just a question 

about—hate to keep banging the drum about recession.  But most of the polls that we’re seeing 

now from the public, people believe that we’re already in a recession or heading for one—

economists, pretty much the same thing.  They’re being told by folks like you and the 

Administration that we’re not in a recession, we’re not heading for a recession—frankly, coming 

from the same people who told them inflation was transitory, telling them now that we’re not 

heading for a recession.  So what would you tell the public to reassure them now that you feel 

Page 26 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

confident in your forecast going forward and the Fed is ready to respond to a—to a potential 

downturn in the economy?  

CHAIR POWELL.  No, all I’ve really said is I don’t think it’s likely that the U.S. 

economy’s in a recession now.  And I’ve explained why that is the case.  It’s, it’s because you do 

see a very strong labor market.  And I think the public will see that as well.  You know, going 

forward, what we’ve seen is a—is a slowing in spending, as I mentioned.  We’ve seen the very 

beginnings of perhaps a slight lessening in the—in the tightness of the labor market, but it would 

only be the beginnings.  

So, and I mentioned that, that—I also said that our goal is to bring inflation down and 

have a so-called soft landing, by which I mean a landing that doesn’t require a significant 

increase, a really significant increase in unemployment.  We’re trying to achieve that.  I have 

said, on many occasions, that we understand that’s going to be quite challenging and that it’s got 

more challenging over recent months.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Kyle.  

KYLE CAMPBELL.  Thanks, Chair Powell.  Kyle Campbell with American Banker.  

The FOMC has historically tried to avoid the kind of rapid monetary policy tightening that has 

happened so far this year.  How concerned are you that the rate hikes that we’ve seen thus far 

might increase risks to financial stability not just domestically, but globally?  

CHAIR POWELL.  I mean, there are precedents for the FOMC moving very quickly—

for example, in 1994, and in 1980, even more so.  So we’ve been known to do that when it’s the 

appropriate thing to do.  And this year, it clearly is.  I would say that, given how quickly we’ve 

moved, I’m gratified that while—that, basically, markets have been working.  They’ve been 

orderly.  There’s been some volatility, but that’s only to be expected.  

Page 27 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

For a financial stability perspective, you know, asset values are down, which in some—in 

some sense lowers vulnerabilities.  It’s when they’re really high that you would worry that 

they’re—that they’re vulnerable to a fall, actually.  Many asset values have come down.  I think 

you’ve got a well-capitalized banking system.  I think you have—households are generally in 

about as strong as financial shape as they’ve been in a very long time or perhaps ever given the 

money that’s on people’s balance sheets.  So you have a pretty—from a financial stability 

standpoint, you have a pretty decent picture.  

Now, the macroeconomic, there are plenty of macroeconomic issues that don’t rise to the 

level of financial stability concerns.  By financial stability, you know, we think of that as things 

that might undermine the working of the financial system, so big, serious things.  That’s not to 

say that people at the lower end of the income spectrum aren’t, aren’t suffering, because they are.  

They’re suffering from high inflation.  They’re going to the—to the grocery store and finding 

that, in many cases, their paycheck doesn’t cover the food they’re accustomed to buying.  We’re 

seeing actual, you know, real declines in food consumption.  And, you know, it’s very 

concerning.  It’s very unfortunate.  And that’s why we’re—we’re really committed to bringing 

down inflation—one of the reasons.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Let’s go to Mark for the last question.  

MARK HAMRICK.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Mark Hamrick with Bankrate.  I can 

remember when you held your first news conference, and you vowed to be a very plainspoken 

Chairman, and we’re thinking today about the impacts of Fed policy on individuals as well.  

What would you say to individuals or households who may yet lose their jobs in this tightening 

cycle in the fight against inflation as they try to translate what Fed policy means to them in this 

complicated economic landscape?  Thank you.  

Page 28 of 29 

 
 
 
 
July 27, 2022 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I guess the first thing I would say to, to every household is that 

we know that inflation is too high.  We understand how painful it is, particularly for people who 

are living paycheck to paycheck and spend most of that paycheck on necessities, such as food 

and gas and heating their homes and clothing and things like that.  We do understand that, that 

those people suffer the most.  Middle-class and better-off people have some resources, where 

they can absorb these things.  But people, many people, don’t have those resources.  So, you 

know, we—it is our job.  It is our institutional role.  We are assigned uniquely and 

unconditionally the obligation of, of providing price stability to the American people.  And we’re 

going to use our tools to do that.  

As I mentioned, there will be some, in all likelihood, some softening in labor market 

conditions.  We need growth to slow to below potential growth.  We don’t want to—we don’t 

want this to be bigger than it needs to be.  But, ultimately, if you think about the medium and 

longer term, price stability is the thing that, that makes the whole economy work.  It’s what 

can—it can give us a strong labor market and wages that aren’t being eaten up by high inflation.  

If you talk to people—again, people who are making, you know, wages, relatively low wages—

they’re the ones who are suffering the most from inflation.  So it’s all the more reason why we 

need to move, move on this.  Thank you very much. 

Page 29 of 29