SOURCE: https://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/files/FOMCpresconf20230726.pdf

July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

Transcript of Chair Powell’s Press Conference 
July 26, 2023 

CHAIR POWELL.  Good afternoon.  My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on 

our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people.  

We understand the hardship that high inflation is causing, and we remain strongly committed to 

bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal.  Price stability is the responsibility of the 

Federal Reserve.  Without price stability, the economy doesn’t work for anyone.  In particular, 

without price stability, we will not achieve a sustained period of strong labor market conditions 

that benefit all. 

Since early last year, the FOMC has significantly tightened the stance of monetary 

policy.  Today we took another step by raising our policy interest rate ¼ percentage point, and 

we are continuing to reduce our securities holdings at a brisk pace.  We’ve covered a lot of 

ground, and the full effects of our tightening have yet to be felt.  Looking ahead, we will 

continue to take a data-dependent approach in determining the extent of additional policy firming 

that may be appropriate.  I’ll have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing 

economic developments. 

Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate pace.  

Growth in consumer spending appears to have slowed from earlier in the year.  Although activity 

in the housing sector has picked up somewhat, it remains well below levels of a year ago, largely 

reflecting higher mortgage rates.  And higher interest rates and slower output growth also appear 

to be weighing on business fixed investment. 

The labor market remains very tight.  Over the past three months, job gains averaged 

244,000 jobs per month, a pace below that seen earlier in the year but still a strong pace.  The 

unemployment rate remains low at 3.6 percent.  There are some continuing signs that supply and 

Page 1 of 28 

 
 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

demand in the labor market are coming into better balance.  The labor force participation rate has 

moved up since last year, particularly for individuals aged 25 to 54 years.  Nominal wage growth 

has shown some signs of easing, and job vacancies have declined so far this year.  While the 

jobs-to-workers gap has narrowed, labor demand still substantially exceeds the supply of 

available workers. 

Inflation remains well above our longer-run goal of 2 percent.  Over the 12 months 

ending in May, total PCE prices rose 3.8 percent; excluding the volatile food and energy 

categories, core PCE prices rose 4.6 percent.  In June, the 12-month change in the consumer 

price index, or CPI, came in at 3.0 percent, and the change in the core, core CPI, was 4.8 percent. 

Inflation has moderated somewhat since the middle of last year.  Nonetheless, the process 

of getting inflation back down to 2 percent has a long way to go.  Despite elevated inflation, 

longer-term inflation expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range 

of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters, as well as measures from financial 

markets. 

The Fed’s monetary policy actions are guided by our mandate to promote maximum 

employment and stable prices for the American people.  My colleagues and I are acutely aware 

that high inflation imposes significant—significant hardship, as it erodes purchasing power, 

especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and 

transportation.  We’re highly attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our 

mandate, and we are strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. 

At today’s meeting, the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by 

¼ percentage point, bringing the target range to 5¼ to 5½ percent.  We are also continuing the 

process of significantly reducing our securities holdings.  With today’s action, we’ve raised our 

Page 2 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

policy rate by 5¼ percentage points since early last year.  We have been seeing the effects of our 

policy tightening on demand in the most interest rate–sensitive sectors of the economy, 

particularly housing and investment.  It will take time, however, for the full effects of our 

ongoing monetary restraint to be realized, especially on inflation.  In addition, the economy is 

facing headwinds from tighter credit conditions for households and businesses, which are likely 

to weigh on economic activity, hiring, and inflation. 

In determining the extent of additional policy firming that may be appropriate to return 

inflation to 2 percent over time, the Committee will take into account the cumulative tightening 

of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy affects economic activity and inflation, 

and economic and financial developments.  We will continue to make our decisions meeting by 

meeting, based on the totality of the incoming data and their implications for the outlook for 

economic activity and inflation, as well as the balance of risks. 

We remain committed to bringing inflation back to our 2 percent goal and to keeping 

longer-term inflation expectations well anchored.  Reducing inflation is likely to require a period 

of below-trend growth and some softening of labor market conditions.  Restoring price stability 

is essential to set the stage for achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the 

longer run. 

To conclude:  We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and 

businesses across the country.  Everything we do is in service to our public mission.  We at the 

Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum-employment and price-stability goals.  

Thank you, and I look forward to your questions. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Steve. 

Page 3 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

STEVE LIESMAN.  Mr. Chairman, thank you.  You have, I think a couple of times in 

your opening remarks, talked about this language “in determining the extent of additional policy 

firming that may be appropriate.”  Should we take that to mean that additional hikes are likely on 

the way?  And should we also believe that all future meetings—say, September and November—

are live, or are you in an every-other-meeting mode? Thank you.  

CHAIR POWELL.  So we haven’t made a decision to go to every other meeting.  It’s not 

something we’ve looked at.  We’re going to be going meeting by meeting, and as we go into 

each meeting, we’re going to be asking ourselves the same questions.  So we haven’t made any 

decisions about, about any future meetings, including the pace at which we’d consider hiking.  

But we’re going to be assessing the need for further tightening that may be appropriate—you 

read the language—“to return inflation to 2 percent over time.” 

I would say that the intermeeting data came in broadly in line with expectations:  

Economic activity remained resilient, job creation remains strong while cooling a bit, and the 

June CPI report actually came in a bit better than expectations for a change.  And the June CPI 

report, of course, was welcomed, but it’s only one report, one month’s data.  We hope that 

inflation will follow a lower path, as was—that will be consistent with the CPI reading, but we 

don’t know that, and we’re just going to need to see more data. 

So, what are we going to be looking at?  Really, it will be the broader, the whole broader 

picture, and starting with—we’re looking for moderate growth, right?  We’re looking for supply 

and demand through the economy coming into better balance, including, in particular, in the 

labor market.  We’ll be looking at inflation.  We’ll be asking ourselves, does this whole 

collection of data, do we assess it as suggesting that we need to raise rates further?  And if we 

make that conclusion, then we will go ahead and raise rates.  So that’s how we’re thinking about 

Page 4 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

the next meeting and, you know, how we’re thinking about meetings going forward potentially, 

but, you know, we’re now mainly thinking about the next meeting. 

I will also say, since we’re talking about it, between now and the September meeting, we 

get two more job reports, two more CPI reports.  I think we have an ECI report coming later this 

week—which is [an] employment compensation index—and lots of data on economic activity.  

All of that information is going to inform our decision as we go into that meeting.  I would say it 

is certainly possible that we would raise funds again at the September meeting if the data warrant 

it, and I would also say it’s possible that we would choose to hold steady at that meeting.  We’re 

going to be making careful assessments, as I said, meeting by meeting, and I’ll close by saying 

we’ve raised the federal funds rate now by 525 basis points since March 2022.  Monetary policy, 

we believe, is restrictive and is putting downward pressure on economic activity and inflation. 

STEVE LIESMAN.  If I could just briefly follow up on something you said there:  You 

said the data in the intermeeting period, it probably came in in line with expectations.  Does that 

mean there’s unlikely to have been a change in the overwhelming outlook of the Committee that 

two more hikes are necessary? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I’m just going to go back to what I said.  We, we—you know, that’s 

the question.  We have eight weeks now until the September meeting, and all that data that I 

recited, we’re going to be looking at all that and making that assessment then.  And it really—we 

did have the one good reading, and, of course, we welcome that.  But it’s just one reading, as 

everybody knows.  And, and, you know, we’ve seen—we’ve seen this before in the data.  Many 

forecasts call for, for rates—for, for inflation to remain low, but we just don’t know that until we 

see the data.  So we’ll be focusing on that. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jeanna. 

Page 5 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

JEANNA SMIALEK.  Thank you.  Thanks for taking our questions, Chair Powell.  

Obviously, you updated the language around growth in the statement today.  You know, we’ve 

seen the Barbie movie numbers.  We’ve seen everyone going to Taylor Swift concerts this 

summer.  It seems like the American consumers are in pretty good shape, and it does seem like 

growth is sort of picking back up a little bit or at least doing well.  And I wonder, from your 

perspective, if that continues, if we see growth not just stabilizing but doing, you know, 

performing well this summer, is that a problem because it’s inflationary, or is it good news 

because it suggests that a soft landing is more likely?  Just how are you thinking about that sort 

of trajectory? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah.  So I would say it this way:  The overall resilience of the 

economy, the fact that, that we’ve been able to achieve disinflation so far without any 

meaningful negative impact on the labor market, the strength of the economy—overall, that’s a 

good thing.  It’s good to see that, of course.  It’s also—you see consumer, consumer confidence 

coming up and things like that.  That will support activity going forward.  But you’re, you’re 

right, though.  At the margin, stronger growth could lead, over time, to higher inflation, and that 

would require an appropriate response for monetary policy.  So we’ll be watching that carefully 

and seeing how it evolves over time. 

MICHELE SMITH.  Neil.  

NEIL IRWIN.  Thanks, Chair Powell.  Neil Irwin from Axios.  So, as you referenced 

earlier, in the intermeeting period, soft CPI, jobs reports still strong but moderating, JOLTS look 

good.  So if you’re data dependent, why not pause again?  Why not stay on hold?  Why not take 

another meeting off when the data was at least cutting in the direction you want to see? 

Page 6 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So if you go back to what we’re trying to do here, we’re trying to 

achieve a stance of policy that’s sufficiently restrictive to bring inflation down to 2 percent.  At 

the last meeting, we wrote down our individual estimates of that would take—of what that would 

take, and the median of that was, was an additional two rate hikes.  So I would say, we looked at 

the interim intermeeting data and, as I mentioned, broadly consistent, not perfectly consistent, 

but broadly consistent with expectations.  And, as a result, we went ahead and, and took another 

step.  And that’s, you know, a labor market that continues to be strong but, but gradually 

slowing.  I mentioned that the inflation report was actually a little better than expected, but, you 

know, we’re, we’re going to be careful about taking too much signal from, from a single reading.  

And, you know, growth came in stronger than expected.  So that’s how we look at it, and, and so 

we did take that step today. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nick. 

NICK TIMIRAOS.  Nick Timiraos of the Wall Street Journal.  Chair Powell, markets 

widely believe the median FOMC participant’s inflation forecast from June for the fourth quarter 

of this year will be too high, given autos and shelter, and that by September, that may warrant a 

downward revision in the inflation forecast of 20 to 30 basis points.  Would that type of inflation 

progress be enough to hold rates steady from here, or do you need to see below-trend growth and 

decelerating labor income growth to be convinced that you’ve done enough? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So it’s hard to pick the pieces apart and say, you know, how much of 

this and how much of that.  You know, we’ll be looking at everything.  And, you know, we’ll, of 

course, we’ll be looking to see whether the signal from June’s CPI is replicated or, or the 

opposite of replicated or whether it’s somewhere in the middle.  We’ll be looking at the growth 

data.  We’ll be looking at the labor market data very closely, of course, and making an overall 

Page 7 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

judgment about that.  It’s the totality of the data, I think, but with a particular focus on, on 

making progress on inflation. 

NICK TIMIRAOS.  If I could follow up:  Last month you said there were benefits to 

moderating the pace of increases because it would give you more information to make decisions.  

Would another CPI report like the one we just had in June allow you to at least maintain that 

slower pace and defer until the fall any decision on whether you need that second rate hike? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I’m just going to tell you again what we’re going to do.  In 

September, we’re going to look at, at two additional job reports, two additional CPI reports, lots 

of activity data, and that’s what we’re going to look at, and we’re going to make that decision 

then.  And that decision could, could mean another hike in, in September, or it could mean that 

we decide to maintain at that level.  And, again, the question we’re going to be asking ourselves 

is, is the overall signal one that we need to do more, that we need to tighten further?  And if we 

get that signal, whenever we get it, then—and that’s the collective judgment of the Committee—

then we will move ahead.  If we don’t, you know, then, then we’ll have the option of maintaining 

policy at that level, but it’s, it’s, you know, it’s really dependent so much on the data, and we just 

don’t have it yet. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Chris. 

CHRISTOPHER RUGABER.  Hi.  Chris Rugaber at Associated Press.  So consumer 

confidence in the economy is rising, likely in large part because of, of the declines in headline 

inflation.  You also see wages are also rising faster than prices now after trailing them for a long 

time.  How much are Americans truly harmed by inflation at its current level, headline level of 

3 percent?  And with that in mind, when do you put some weight back on the employment side 

of the dual mandate? 

Page 8 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I guess I’d say it this way:  First, it is—it is a good thing that 

headline inflation has come down so much, because that’s really what the public experiences.  

And, and I would say that having headline inflation move down that much almost creates a—it 

will strengthen the broad sense that, that the public has that inflation is coming down, which will 

in turn, we hope, help inflation continue to move down.  So you are really—sorry, your question 

was? 

CHRISTOPHER RUGABER.  Well, I mean, you’ve talked for many press conferences 

now about the harm created by inflation, how hard it is for people.  So how much of that are we 

still seeing with inflation now down at 3 [percent]? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I guess I would put it this way.  We, we—I’d say it this way:  It’s 

really a question of, how do you balance the two risks, the risk of doing too much or doing too 

little?  And, you know, I would say that, you know, we’re coming to a place where, where there 

really are risks on both sides.  It’s hard to say exactly whether, whether they’re in balance or not, 

but as our—as our stance has become more restrictive and inflation moderates, we do 

increasingly face that risk.  But, you know, we, we need to see that inflation is durably down 

that far, you know. 

As you know, we think, and most economists think, that core inflation is actually a better 

signal of, of where headline inflation is going, because headline inflation is affected greatly by 

volatile energy and food prices.  So we would want core inflation to be coming down, because 

that’s what we think—that’s—core is signaling where headline is going to go in the future.  And 

core inflation is still pretty elevated, you know?  There’s reason to think it can come down now, 

but it’s, it’s still quite elevated, and so we think we need to stay on task, and we think we’re 

Page 9 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

going to need to hold, certainly, hold policy at a restrictive level for some time.  And we need to 

be prepared to raise further if that—if we think that’s appropriate. 

CHRISTOPHER RUGABER.  Well, and then if inflation were to—just a quick 

follow[up]: If it stays at 3 or drops even a little bit more, I mean, how much of an increase in 

unemployment do you think is acceptable to get that last bit of inflation?  People are talking 

about the potential difficulty of the last, so-called last mile of inflation.  So—but how much?  

Again, how much unemployment do you think is justified to get down that last one— 

CHAIR POWELL.  So it is—it is a very positive thing that, actually, the unemployment 

rate is the same as it was when we lifted off in March of ’22, at 3.6 percent.  So that’s a real 

blessing in that we’ve been able to achieve some disinflation, and we don’t seek to it.  It’s not 

that we’re aiming to, to raise unemployment, but I would just say, the historical record—we have 

to be honest about the historical record, which does suggest that when central banks go in and 

slow the economy to bring down inflation, the result tends to be some softening in labor market 

conditions.  And so that is still the, the likely outcome here.  And, you know, we hope that that’s 

as little as possible, but we have to be honest that that is—that is the likely outcome. 

The worst outcome for everyone, of course, would be not to deal with inflation now, not 

get it done.  Whatever the short-term social costs of getting inflation under control, the longer-

term social costs of failing to do so are greater, and the historical record is very, very clear on 

that.  If you go through a period where inflation expectations are not anchored, inflation is 

volatile, it interferes with people’s lives and with economic activity, and, you know, that’s the—

that’s the thing we, we really need to avoid and will avoid. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Let’s go to Michael McKee. 

Page 10 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

MICHAEL MCKEE.  At this point, you say the policy is restrictive, but all year long we 

have seen growth surprise to the upside, unemployment to the downside, and inflation, lately, to 

the downside.  So I’m wondering, by definition, should you be restrictive enough right now 

under these conditions?  Do you think you might need to do more, because I’m curious about 

what you see as inflation dynamics now?  Is the economy still moving in a direction where it 

creates more inflation?  People talk about base effects and higher energy costs, and now we have 

some large labor settlements.  Or is the economy disinflating, and you’re just, you’re able to go 

back to the old Fed policy of opportunistic disinflation? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I’ll just say again, the broader picture of what we want to see is, 

we want to see easing of supply constraints and normalization of pandemic-related distortions to 

demand and supply.  We want to see economic growth running at moderate or modest levels to 

help ease inflationary pressures.  We want to see continued restoration of supply and demand 

balance, particularly in the labor market.  And all of that should lead to declining inflationary 

pressures. 

Now what we see is, we see those pieces of the puzzle coming together.  And we’re 

seeing evidence of those things now, but I would—I would say that what, what our eyes are 

telling us is that policy has not been restrictive long, restrictive enough for long enough to have 

its full desired effects.  So we intend, again, to keep policy restrictive until we’re confident that 

inflation is coming down sustainably to our 2 percent target, and we’re prepared to further 

tighten if that is appropriate.  And we think the process, you know, still probably has a, a long 

way to go. 

MICHAEL MCKEE.  Well, do you think under current conditions you are restrictive 

enough unless something changes? 

Page 11 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, I think—we think, you know, today’s rate hike was 

appropriate, and I think we’re going to be looking at the incoming data to inform our decision at 

the next meeting about, is the incoming data telling us that we need to do more?  And if it does 

tell us that—collectively, if that’s our view—then we will do more. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Colby.  

COLBY SMITH.  Thank you.  Colby Smith with the Financial Times.  If September is, 

in fact, a live meeting, how does that square with the need for a more gradual tightening pace 

that you spoke of last month in explaining the rationale for holding the funds rate steady at the 

June meeting? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So a more gradual pace doesn’t go immediately to [moving] every 

other meeting.  It could be two out of three meetings, right?  It could be—it just means if you’re 

slowing down, the point really was to slow down the decision cycle as, as we get closer and 

closer to, we think, our destination.  And I wouldn’t want to go automatically to [moving] every 

other meeting, because I just don’t think that’s—we don’t—I think it’s not an environment 

where we want to provide a lot of forward guidance.  There’s a lot of uncertainty out there. 

We just want to keep moving at what we think is the right pace, and I do think it makes 

all the sense in the world to slow down as we now make these finely judged decisions, and so 

that’s what we did.  And so I, I think it’s possible.  I mentioned it before.  It’s possible that we 

would move at consecutive meetings—we’re not taking that off the table—or we might not.  It’s 

really going to depend on what the data tell us.  That’s the best we can do. 

COLBY SMITH.  So we shouldn’t assume that every other meeting is the lowest 

tightening frequency, let’s say?  It could be, you know, longer intervals in between as well? 

Page 12 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  I think we’re—look, I think we’re going to—we’re going to make a 

decision about the next meeting, and then we’re going to make a decision about the one after 

that.  And I think it’ll sort itself out. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Howard. 

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Thanks.  Howard Schneider with Reuters.  So, among your 

colleagues, there have been people who’ve said they feel that very little transmission has taken 

place so far from monetary policy into the economy, and there are those who feel, they say, it’s 

happened very fast this time, and it’s kind of up to date.  Where are you on that continuum? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So there’s a long-running debate about the lags between changes in 

financial conditions and the response to those changes from economic activity and inflation, 

right?  So we know that in the modern era, financial conditions move in anticipation of our 

decisions, and that has clearly been the case in this cycle.  So, in a sense, the clock starts earlier 

than it—than it used to. 

But that doesn’t necessarily change the process from that point on, and it’s not clear that 

it has.  We also—this is—I’ll tell you what we know and then what we don’t know.  We know 

that financial conditions affect economic activity and inflation with a lag that can be long and 

variable, or lags, plural, that can be long and variable—a lot of uncertainty around the length of 

the lags.  And, by the way, that’s just one component of the broader uncertainty that we face. 

So I’ll tell you how I—how I think about this.  First, the first thing to say is, we’re 

determined to bring inflation down to 2 percent over time, and we will use our tools to do that.  

No one should doubt that.  I would look at it this way, though.  The real federal funds rate is now 

in meaningfully positive territory.  If you take the nominal federal funds rate, subtract the 

mainstream estimate of near-term inflation expectations, you get a real federal funds rate that is 

Page 13 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

well above most estimates of the longer-term neutral rate.  So I would say, monetary policy is 

restrictive, more so after today’s decision, meaning that it is putting downward pressure on 

economic activity and inflation.  We’ll keep monetary policy restrictive until we think it’s not 

appropriate to do so.  So that’s how I think about it. 

I mean, if I sum it up, I would say:  We’ve come a long way.  We are resolutely 

committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent goal over time.  Inflation has proved, 

repeatedly, has proved stronger than we and other forecasts—forecasters have expected, and at 

some point, that may change.  We have to be ready to follow the data, and given how far we’ve 

come, we can afford to be a little patient, as well as resolute, as we let this unfold. 

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  On the—on the credit side, I’m wondering if you saw 

anything in the—in the latest SLOOS data that made you think you’re getting a quantum of 

credit contraction beyond what you’d expect.  The bank lending data really is—the growth rate’s 

edging down towards below, heading below zero, which is usually, you know, a recession 

indicator. 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I guess that the SLOOS will come out early next week, and I 

would just say it’s broadly condition—consistent with what you would expect.  You’ve got 

lending conditions tight and getting a little tighter.  You’ve got weak demand, and, you know, it, 

it gives a picture of pretty tight credit conditions in the economy.  I think it’s really hard to tease 

out whether—how much of that is from this source or that source, but I think what matters is, the 

overall picture is of tight and tightening lending conditions.  And that’s, that’s what the SLOOS 

will say. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Rachel. 

Page 14 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Rachel Siegel from the Washington Post.  Thanks 

for taking our questions.  Could you break down the reasons why inflation has fallen and what 

share of that credit you would give to factors that don’t stem directly from rate hikes or that 

might be within your control at all, like easing supply chains and a drop in energy prices over the 

past year? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah.  So, interesting question.  So let me start by saying that the 

inflation surge that we saw in the pandemic resulted from a collision of elevated demand and, 

and constrained supply, both of which followed from the unprecedented features of the pandemic 

and the response from fiscal and monetary policy.  And we’ve always expected that the 

disinflationary process would stem from, both from the normalization of those broad pandemic-

related supply and demand conditions and from restrictive, restrictive monetary policy, which 

would help return the balance between supply and demand by restraining demand.  And we think 

that’s broadly what we’re—what we’re seeing. 

So to go, break it down a little further:  Of course, headline inflation has come down 

sharply from elevated levels as energy and food prices have come down, mostly due to [a] 

reversal of the effects [on those prices that resulted] from the war in Ukraine.  And that’s, that’s a 

good thing, and the public experiences that, as I mentioned earlier. 

For core inflation, I’d say there also—there has been a role for, for most—for, for both 

factors, both that I mentioned.  Clearly, for goods, normalization of supply conditions is playing 

an important role, as is the reversal, the beginning of the reversal, of spending—back into 

services and away from goods. 

And take autos as an example.  The combination of an increase in sales and inventories, 

while, while vehicle inflation has decelerated, points to a substantial role for supply, but there’s 

Page 15 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

also a role for demand, as, you know, the loans and things like that are more expensive.  So 

they’re both working there.  Housing services inflation now starts to move down.  Clearly, higher 

rates have, have slowed the housing market.  You know, I would say, monetary policy is 

working about as we expect, and we think—we think it’ll play an important role going forward, 

in particular in nonhousing services, where, really, we think that’s, that’s where the labor market 

will come in as a very, very important factor.  So we think both of those—both of those sources 

of disinflation are playing an important role. 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  I see.  And just to follow up, do you think that of those two sources, 

that core will rely more heavily on seeing an impact from rate hikes, or is there a more even split 

there, too? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I think monetary policy is going to be important going forward 

because we, we’re sort of reaping now the benefits of the—of the reversal of some of the very 

specific pandemic things.  We’re seeing that with goods, in particular, with supply chains and 

shortages moving, and we’re seeing—so I think going forward, monetary policy will be 

important, particularly in that, in the sector, in the nonhousing services sector. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Edward.  

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  Thank you, Chair Powell.  First, let me compliment your tie, 

the choice of tie.  It’s a good color.  So thanks for taking our questions.  So the Beige Book, it 

said, “Input cost pressures remained elevated for services firms but eased notably” for 

manufacturing sectors.  Is that an indication that there’s a, a wage inflation pressure?  And how 

do you target pressure on the wage inflation without pushing the economy into a recession? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I think that, as it relates to goods, it’s really an indication that 

supply chains and, and shortages are easing.  And so, what was the first part of it? 

Page 16 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  So, wage inflation.  Like, how do you—how do you target 

wage inflation without pushing an economy into a recession? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I don’t—I don’t think we’re targeting wage inflation.  I think what 

we’re—what we’re looking for is a broad cooling in labor market conditions.  And that’s what 

we’re seeing.  So wages have actually been gradually moving down.  They’re still at levels what 

would—that would be consistent over a long period of time with 2 percent inflation.  

Nonetheless, we’re making progress there.  And by so many indicators, labor market demand is 

cooling.  You can—you can look at surveys by workers and businesses who see that.  You can 

look at the quits rate normalizing.  You can look at job openings coming down.  You can look at 

just job creation in the, the establishment survey has, you know—it’s still at a high level, but it 

was at, really, an extraordinarily high level for most of the last two years. 

So you see cooling, particularly in private sector, in the last, you know, in the last report.  

So I think we see that, and it’s happening at a gradual pace.  So that’s actually not a bad thing, in 

a sense, because if, if what we see is a labor market, very strong demand for labor, which is 

really the engine of the economy—people are getting hired, many people going back to work, 

getting wages, spending money—and that’s really what’s driving the economy but that it’s 

gradually slowing, it’s gradually cooling, that’s a good prescription for getting where we want 

to get. 

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  But still we see a push to raise minimum wage.  We’re seeing 

a lot of unions go on strike or threaten strike, and the common thing is, they come out with 

agreements like big pay increases, like UPS, and we have the autoworkers coming up.  Are you 

concerned then about a trend of series of big unions, these contracts, pushing wage inflation 

then? 

Page 17 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  Not for us to comment on, on contract negotiations.  Not our job, not 

our role.  You know, we, we monitor these things, and we’ll keep an eye on them, but, really, 

that’s something that’s, that’s handled at that level and not— 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Victoria. 

VICTORIA GUIDA.  Hi.  Victoria Guida with Politico.  I wanted to ask about the SEP, 

which suggests that you would cut rates as overall and core PCE get to around or under 

3 percent.  And so I’m wondering, is the level of inflation what’s sort of important there as you 

think about getting to 2 percent and when you might start cutting rates, or is the speed at which 

inflation is falling also important? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I think you’d take both into account.  I think you’d take everything 

into account when you start cutting rates.  It would—it would depend on the whole, on a wide 

range of things.  And when, when people are writing down rate cuts next year, you know, it just 

is a sense that inflation is coming down, and we’re comfortable that it’s coming down, and it’s 

time to start cutting rates.  I think—but I mean, there’s a lot of uncertainty between what 

happens, you know, in the next meeting cycle, let alone the next year, let alone the year after 

that.  So it’s, it’s hard to say exactly what happens there, what’s motivating people. 

VICTORIA GUIDA.  So if it’s sort of—sort of stubbornly in maybe the high 2s, you 

wouldn’t necessarily cut rates? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I’m not going—I’m not saying that at all.  I’m not giving you any 

numerical guidance around that.  I’m saying we would—we’d be comfortable cutting rates when 

we’re comfortable cutting rates, and that won’t be this year, I don’t think.  It would be—you 

know, many people wrote down rate cuts for next year.  I think the median was several for next 

year.  And that’s just going to be a judgment that we have to make then, a full year from now, 

Page 18 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

and it’ll be about how confident we are that inflation is, in fact, coming down to our 2 percent 

goal. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Steve. 

STEVE MATTHEWS.  A good part of Wall Street has become more confident that the 

Fed is going to be able to engineer a soft landing, and they’ve reduced their forecast for a 

recession.  And I’m wondering if the staff has changed its view on the likelihood of a recession 

being likely and if you personally have changed your view in terms of becoming more confident 

that you can achieve a soft landing. 

CHAIR POWELL.  So it’s, it has been my view consistently that we do have a shot, and 

my base case is that we will be able to achieve inflation moving back down to our target without 

the kind of really significant downturn that results in high levels of job losses that we’ve seen in 

some past—in some past instances, many past instances of tightening that look like ours.  That’s 

been my view.  That’s, that’s still my view.  And I think, you know, that that’s sort of consistent 

with, with what I see today.  So—but it’s a long way from assured, and, and, you know, we have 

a lot left to go to see that happen. 

So the staff now has a noticeable slowdown in growth starting later this year in the 

forecast, but given the resilience of the economy recently, they are no longer forecasting a 

recession.  I just want to note that it’s—that our staff produces its own forecast, which is 

independent of the forecasts that we as FOMC participants produce.  Having an independent 

staff forecast as well as the individual participant forecasts  is really a strength of our—of our 

process.  There’s just a lot of, I think, constructive diversity of opinion that, that helps us make—

informs our deliberations—helps us make, I hope, better decisions. 

Page 19 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

STEVE MATTHEWS.  And is the reason for optimism that inflation has come down and 

you still have a strong labor market?  I mean, does that add to the optimism? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I wouldn’t use the term “optimism” about this yet.  I would—I would 

say, though, that there’s a pathway, and, yes, that’s, that’s a good way to think about it.  We’ve, 

we’ve seen so far the beginnings of disinflation without any real costs in the labor market.  And 

that’s, that’s a really good thing.  I would just also say the historical record suggests that there’s 

very likely to be some softening in labor market conditions.  And consistent with having a soft 

landing, you would—you would have some softening in labor market conditions, and that’s still 

likely as we—as we go forward with this process.  But it’s a good thing to date that we haven’t—

we haven’t really seen that. 

We’ve seen softening through other—not through unemployment, not through higher 

unemployment.  We’ve seen softening through, you know, job openings coming down part of the 

way back to more normal levels; the quits rate, so people are not quitting as much; we’ve seen 

participation—people coming in, and so labor supply has, has improved, which has lowered the 

temperature in the labor market, which was quite overheated, you know, going back a year or so.  

So we’re seeing that kind of cooling, and that’s, that’s very healthy, and, you know, we hope it 

continues. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jeff. 

JEFF COX.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Jeff Cox from CNBC.com.  You and other Fed 

officials in the past have suggested that you don’t need to keep hiking until inflation hits 

2 percent, that—as long as you see continued progress.  So I’m wondering, how close do you 

need to get with the inflation numbers coming down?  How many months of data do you need to 

Page 20 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

see that will—that will give you sufficient confidence, and how, how far does this fight need to 

go before you’re willing to kind of declare victory on it? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So the idea that we would keep hiking until inflation gets to 

2 percent—it would be a prescription [for a policy] of going way past the target.  That’s, that’s 

clearly not the appropriate way to think about it.  So, and in fact, if you look at our forecast, we, 

we—the median participant—and, again, these are forecasting out years, so take them with a 

grain of salt.  But people are cutting rates next year because, because, you know, the federal 

funds rate is at a restrictive level now. 

So if we see inflation coming down credibly, sustainably, then we don’t need to be at a 

restrictive level anymore.  We can, you know, we can move back to a—to a neutral level and 

then below a neutral level at a certain point.  I think we would, you know, we would—we, of 

course, would be very careful about that.  We’d really want to be sure that inflation is coming 

down in a sustainable level.  And it’s hard to make—I’m not going to try to make a numerical 

assessment of when and where that would be.  But that’s the way I would think about it, is you’d 

start—you’d stop raising long before you got to 2 percent inflation, and you’d start cutting before 

you got to 2 percent inflation, too, because we don’t see ourselves getting to 2 percent inflation 

until—you know, all the way back to 2—until 2025 or so. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jennifer. 

JENNIFER SCHONBERGER.  Thank you, Chair Powell.  Jennifer Schonberger with 

Yahoo Finance.  It’s been over four months since a handful of regional banks, including Silicon 

Valley Bank, failed.  When you look at credit conditions now, given Banc of California’s 

acquisition of PacWest, does this acquisition suggest the full impact has not been felt, or are you 

Page 21 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

comfortable saying that we’ve seen most of the ripple effects that may have occurred at this 

point?  And how does this play into your outlook for policy? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I don’t want to comment on any particular merger proposal, but I 

will say, things have settled down for sure out there.  Deposit flows have stabilized.  Capital and 

liquidity remain strong.  Aggregate bank lending was stable quarter over quarter and is up 

significantly year over year.  Banking-sector profits generally are coming in strong this quarter.  

And, overall, the banking system remains strong and resilient.  Of course, we’re still watching, 

you know, the situation carefully and monitoring, you know, monitoring conditions in, in the 

banking sector. 

In terms of the, the actual effect on—if you think of a particular set of banks that were, 

were affected because of their size and business model and things like that, that were more 

affected by the turmoil in March than others, it’s very hard, as I mentioned; it’s very hard to sort 

of tease out the effects on this very large economy of ours from them tightening.  They may be 

tightening a little bit more, probably are, than other banks. 

The SLOOS has been telling us for more than a year that banking conditions are 

tightening.  That process is ongoing, and that will restrain economic growth.  So I think—I think 

we have to take a step back from “I can’t separate those anymore.”  I think—I think, basically, 

we’re just looking at the overall picture, which is one of tightening credit conditions.  And that’s, 

that’s going to restrain economic activity.  It is restraining economic activity.  So that’s how I 

would look at it. 

JENNIFER SCHONBERGER.  And how is that informing your outlook for setting 

policy? 

Page 22 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I think we—that goes—that’s—an expected result of tightening 

interest rate policy is that—is that bank credit conditions—bank lending conditions would 

tighten as well.  And so the question is, is it more effective this time because of what happened 

in May?  I just don’t think we know that.  I think we’re looking at the current data in GDP, and 

we’re seeing strong spending.  We’re seeing a strong economy, and it’s made us confident that 

we can go ahead and raise interest rates now for the third time since the March events.  And I—it 

seems like the economy is weathering this well, but, of course, we’re watching it carefully and, 

and expect to continue to do that. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Megan. 

MEGAN CASSELLA.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Thanks for taking our questions.  Megan 

Cassella with Barron’s.  I wondered on wages if you were at all concerned about any inflationary 

impact of wages now outpacing inflation, which is likely contributing to the boost in consumer 

sentiment and the continued strength of the consumer that we’ve been seeing. 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, [growth in nominal] wages in excess of inflation means [that 

increases in] real wages are positive.  Again, that’s a great thing.  Of course, we want that.  We 

want people to have [gains in] real wages.  But we want wages to be going up at a level that’s 

consistent with, with 2 percent inflation over time.  As I mentioned, [increases in] nominal wages 

have been coming down gradually, and that’s what we want to see.  We expect to see more of 

that.  That’s just more of what’s consistent over a longer period of time.  We don’t really think 

that, that wages were an important cause of inflation in the first year or so of the outbreak.  But I 

would say that wages are probably an important issue going forward.  Labor market conditions 

broadly are going to be an important part of, of getting inflation back down, and that’s why we 

think we need some further softening in labor market conditions. 

Page 23 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

MEGAN CASSELLA.  This goes sort of to the balance of risks question, but you 

mentioned at the start how you’re keeping an eye on consumer activity and whether there might 

be some sort of a rebound there, and I’m curious what the Fed’s explanation would be to families 

if further interest rate hikes start to hit the labor market—start to, you know, drive that sentiment 

back down.  What’s the message there of, of why you continue to keep rates elevated or to raise 

them? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, you know, we have a job assigned to us by Congress to get 

inflation under control.  And we think the, the single most important thing we can do to benefit 

those very families, especially families at the lower end of the income spectrum, is to get 

inflation sustainably under control and restore price stability.  We think that is the most 

important thing we can do now, and we’re determined to do that. 

And I would just point out that the people who are the most hurt by inflation right away 

are people who are on a low fixed income, who, you know, when you’re talking about travel or, 

you know, transportation costs, heating costs, clothing, food, things like that, those—if you’re 

just making it through each month on your paycheck and prices go up, you’re in trouble right 

away.  Even middle-class people have some resources and can absorb inflation.  People, people 

on the lower end of the income spectrum have a harder time doing that.  So we need—we need to 

get this done.  And, you know, the record is clear that if we—if we take too long or if, if we 

don’t succeed, that the pain will only be greater.  So that’s, that’s how I would explain what 

we’re doing. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Simon. 

SIMON RABINOVITCH.  Thank you, Chair Powell.  Simon Rabinovitch with the 

Economist.  You had said last month that this meeting this week was going to be a live one.  In 

Page 24 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

the event, the market had assigned a, you know, a roughly 99 percent probability to the rate 

move that you announced today.  The decision was, of course, unanimous, and the statement was 

basically unchanged from last month.  So may I ask, you know, to what extent was the meeting 

actually a live one?  Was there ever any doubt over the past two days about what the decision 

was, was actually going to be? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, I mean, you could—“Was there doubt?”  Look, I would say 

there’s a range of views on the Committee, and when you see the minutes in three weeks, you’ll 

see that.  There’s a range of views about what we should do at this meeting and what we should 

do at the next meeting, and it’s a—it’s a process that we go through.  Many times when we go 

into a meeting, the decision is not, you know, fundamentally in doubt.  Nonetheless, we have the 

meeting, and some—some—some meetings are, you know, less uncertain than others, and I’ll 

just leave it at that. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Let’s go to Evan. 

EVAN RYSER.  Evan Ryser, Market News International.  Thank you, Chair Powell.  

Financial conditions have been loosening at a fairly steady clip in recent weeks—the dollar, the 

stock market, et cetera.  What does that mean for the Fed and being sure that inflation will come 

down to target? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So we monitor, of course, financial conditions, broad financial 

conditions.  You’re right.  It’s the dollar and equities, but—and, you know, we’re, of course, 

very focused on rates and our own policy.  You know, we will—we’re going to use our policy 

tools to—working through financial conditions—to get inflation under control  The implication 

is, you know, we will do what it takes to get inflation down, and in principle, that, that could 

mean that if financial conditions get looser, we have to do more.  But what tends to happen, 

Page 25 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

though, is, financial conditions get in and out of alignment with what we’re doing, and, and, 

ultimately, over time, we get where we need to go. 

EVAN RYSER.  If I could also ask about the SEP from June that showed rate cuts—do 

you expect the Fed to cut nominal rates next year while also continuing QT? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So that, that could happen.  The question is, you know, is that 

consistent with, with—so if you think about both of them as normalization, imagine it’s a world 

where things are okay, and it’s time to bring rates down from what are restrictive levels to more 

normal levels.  Normalization, in the case of, of the balance sheet, would be to reduce QT or to 

continue it, depending on where you are in the cycle.  So they are two independent things.  And, 

you know, really, the active tool of monetary policy is rates.  But you can imagine circumstances 

in which it would be appropriate to have them working in what might be seen to be just different 

ways.  But that wouldn’t be the case. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Let’s go to Kyle. 

KYLE CAMPBELL.  Thanks, Chair Powell.  Kyle Campbell with American Banker.  I 

have a question about the discount window.  I’m wondering if, since the bank failures of the 

spring, if you’ve seen signs that banks have taken more steps to be proactive in assuring that 

they’re ready to use that facility if they need to and if you have any sort of thoughts on whether 

policies might be appropriate for making sure that banks sort of test regularly to, to show that 

they are prepared to use it.  Thanks. 

CHAIR POWELL.  So that’s a very important thing.  Yes.  And yes to both sides of that.  

You know, yes, banks are now working to see that they are ready to use the discount window, 

and we are strongly encouraging them to do that—banks broadly.  We did find, as you know, 

during the events of March and that, you know, that it’s a little clunkier.  It can be a little 

Page 26 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

clunkier and not as quick as it needs to be sometimes.  So why not be in a situation where, where 

you’re just much more ready in case you—in case you need to access the discount window? 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Let’s go to Mark Hamrick. 

MARK HAMRICK.  Mr. Chairman, Mark Hamrick with Bankrate.  You’ve talked in the 

past about getting the housing market back into better balance—excuse me—and also that the 

market might have bottomed.  Where do you see that situation in balance, or lack thereof, right 

now, particularly with the restrained, constrained inventory of existing homes that might 

otherwise be coming onto market at a time when existing homeowners are reluctant to move and, 

of course, also all of that happening with the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage still around 7 percent 

on the heels of Fed tightening and with what you’re talking about tightening industry lending 

standards?  Are we getting closer to balance or farther away?  What’s your sense? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I think we’ve got a ways to go to get back to balance, really, for the 

reasons that you talked about.  With existing homes, you know, there are many people who have 

low-rate mortgages, and whereas they might want to sell in a normal situation, they’re not going 

to because they have such, so much, value in their mortgage, whch means that supply of existing 

homes is really, really tight, which is keeping prices up. 

On the other hand, there’s, you know, there’s a lot of supply coming on line now, and, 

and there are people coming in.  A lot of the buyers are, are, you know, first-time buyers coming 

in, buying at, you know, with these, you know, with these relatively elevated mortgage rates.  

But I think this will take some time to work through.  Hopefully, more supply comes on line, 

and, you know, we, we work through it.  We’re still living through the, you know, the aftermath 

of the—of the pandemic. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  We’ll go to Nancy for the last question.  

Page 27 of 28 

 
 
 
 
July 26, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Nancy Marshall-Genzer with 

Marketplace.  Russia has pulled out of an agreement allowing shipments of grains, safe passage 

through the Black Sea, and alternative routes at this point could be closed off.  Just wondering, 

how could that contribute to higher food prices and inflation generally, and how closely are you 

watching that? 

CHAIR POWELL.  We are watching it, of course, very closely.  And you’re right.  The 

withdrawal from the Black Sea Grain Initiative does raise concerns about global food security, 

particularly for poorer countries that import a large share of their food.  Grain prices did go up on 

this news, but they remain well below their peaks of last spring.  And the moves that we’ve seen 

so far, I would say, are not expected to make a significant contribution to U.S. inflation.  Of 

course, we will be watching that situation carefully. 

NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER.  So you don’t think it would have a big effect on Fed 

policy at this point? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Doesn’t.  You wouldn’t say so looking at what we—what we 

know now. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL.  Thanks very much. 

Page 28 of 28