SOURCE: https://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/files/FOMCpresconf20231101.pdf

November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

Transcript of Chair Powell’s Press Conference  
November 1, 2023 

CHAIR POWELL.  Good afternoon, everyone.  Welcome.  My colleagues and I remain 

squarely focused on our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for 

the American people.  We understand the hardship that high inflation is causing, and we remain 

strongly committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal.  Price stability is the 

responsibility of the Federal Reserve.  Without price stability, the economy does not work for 

anyone.  In particular, without price stability, we will not achieve a sustained period of strong 

labor market conditions that benefit all.  

Since early last year, the FOMC has significantly tightened the stance of monetary 

policy.  We have raised our policy interest rate by 5¼ percentage points and have continued to 

reduce our securities holdings at a brisk pace.  The stance of policy is restrictive—meaning that 

tight policy is putting downward pressure on economic activity and inflation—and the full 

effects of our tightening have yet to be felt.  Today, we decided to leave our policy interest rate 

unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings.  Given how far we have come, 

along with the uncertainties and risks we face, the Committee is proceeding carefully.  We will 

make decisions about the extent of additional policy firming and how long policy will remain 

restrictive based on the totality of the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of 

risks.  I’ll have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic 

developments. 

Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has been expanding at a strong pace and 

well above earlier expectations.  In the third quarter, real GDP is estimated to have risen at an 

outsized annual rate of 4.9 percent, boosted by a surge in consumer spending.  After picking up 

somewhat over the summer, activity in the housing sector has flattened out and remains well 

Page 1 of 27 

 
 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

below levels of a year ago, largely reflecting higher mortgage rates.  Higher interest rates also 

appear to be weighing on business fixed investment.  

The labor market remains tight, but supply and demand conditions continue to come into 

better balance.  Over the past three months, payroll job gains averaged 266,000 jobs per month, a 

strong pace that is nevertheless below that seen earlier in the year.  The unemployment rate 

remains low at 3.8 percent.  Strong job creation has been accompanied by an increase in the 

supply of workers.  The labor force participation rate has moved up since late last year, 

particularly for individuals aged 25 to 54 years, and immigration has rebounded to pre-pandemic 

levels.  Nominal wage growth has shown some signs of easing, and job vacancies have declined 

so far this year.  Although the jobs-to-workers gap has narrowed, labor demand still exceeds the 

supply of available workers. 

Inflation remains well above our longer-run goal of 2 percent.  Total PCE prices rose 

3.4 percent over the 12 months ending in September.  Excluding the volatile food and energy 

categories, core PCE prices rose 3.7 percent.  Inflation has moderated since the middle of last 

year, and readings over the summer were quite favorable.  But a few months of good data are 

only the beginning of what it will take to build confidence that inflation is moving down 

sustainably toward our goal.  The process of getting inflation sustainably down to 2 percent has a 

long way to go.  Despite elevated inflation, longer-term inflation expectations appear to remain 

well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and 

forecastters, as well as measures from financial markets. 

The Fed’s monetary policy actions are guided by our mandate to promote maximum 

employment and stable prices for the American people.  My colleagues and I are acutely aware 

that high inflation imposes significant hardship as it erodes purchasing power, especially for 

Page 2 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation.  We 

are highly attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and we are 

strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. 

As I noted earlier, since early last year, we have raised our policy rate by 5¼ percentage 

points, and we have decreased our securities holdings by more than $1 trillion.  Our restrictive 

stance of monetary policy is putting downward pressure on economic activity and inflation.  The 

Committee decided at today’s meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 

5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings.  

We are committed to achieving a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to bring 

inflation sustainably down to 2 percent over time, and to keeping policy restrictive until we are 

confident that inflation is on a path to that objective. 

We are attentive to recent data showing the resilience of economic growth and demand 

for labor.  Evidence of growth persistently above potential, or that tightness in the labor market is 

no longer easing, could put further progress on inflation at risk and could warrant further 

tightening of monetary policy. 

Financial conditions have tightened significantly in recent months, driven by higher 

longer-term bond yields, among other factors.  Because persistent changes in financial conditions 

can have implications for the path of monetary policy, we monitor financial developments 

closely. 

In light of the uncertainties and risks, and how far we have come, the Committee is 

proceeding carefully.  We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting, based on the 

totality of the incoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and 

inflation as well as the balance of risks.  In determining the extent of additional policy firming 

Page 3 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

that may be appropriate to return inflation to 2 percent over time, the Committee will take into 

account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy 

affects economic activity and inflation, and economic and financial developments.  

We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to 

keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored.  Reducing inflation is likely to require 

a period of below-potential growth and some softening of labor market conditions.  Restoring 

price stability is essential to set the stage for achieving maximum employment and stable prices 

over the longer run. 

To conclude:  We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and 

businesses across the country.  Everything we do is in service to our public mission.  We at the 

Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum-employment and price-stability goals. 

Thank you, and I look forward to your questions. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Let’s go to Howard.  

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Howard Schneider with Reuters.  Thank you, Chair Powell, 

for doing this.  To what—you referenced the rise in long-term bond yields—to what degree did 

that supplant action by the Fed at this meeting? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Thanks for your question.  So, I’ll talk about bond yields, but I want 

to take a second and just sort of set the broader context in which we’re looking at that.  So, if 

you—if you look at the situation—let’s look at the economy first.  Inflation has been coming 

down, but it’s still running well above our 2 percent target.  The labor market has been 

rebalancing, but it’s still very tight by many measures.  GDP growth has been strong, although 

many forecasters are forecasting, and they have been forecasting, that it will slow. 

Page 4 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

As for the Committee, we are committed to achieving a stance of monetary policy that’s 

sufficiently restrictive to bring inflation down to 2 percent over time, and we’re not confident yet 

that we have achieved such a stance.  So that is the broader context into which this, this strong 

economy and all the things I said—that’s the context in which we’re looking at this question of 

rates. 

So, obviously we’re monitoring, we’re attentive to the increase in longer-term yields 

and—which have contributed to a tightening of broader financial conditions since the summer.  

As I mentioned, persistent changes in broader financial conditions can have implications for the 

path of monetary policy.  In this case, the tighter financial conditions we’re seeing—[coming] 

from higher long-term rates, but also from other sources, like the stronger dollar and lower 

equity prices—could matter for future rate decisions, as long as two conditions are satisfied. 

The first is that the tighter conditions would need to be persistent.  And that is something 

that remains to be seen.  But that’s critical.  Things are fluctuating back and forth—that’s not 

what we’re looking for.  With financial conditions, we’re looking for persistent changes that are 

material. 

The second thing is that, that the longer-term rates that have moved up—they can’t 

simply be a reflection of, of expected policy moves from us that we would then—that if we 

didn’t follow through on them, then the rates would come back down.  So, and I would say on 

that, it does not appear that an expectation of higher near-term policy rates is causing the 

increase in longer-term rates.  So, in the meantime, though, perhaps the most important thing is 

that these higher Treasury yields are showing through to higher borrowing costs for households 

and businesses and those higher costs are going to weigh on economic activity to the extent this 

tightening persists and the mind’s eye goes to the 8 percent—near 8 percent mortgage rate, 

Page 5 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

which could have pretty significant effect on housing.  So that’s how I would answer your 

question. 

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Just as a quick follow-on, to be clear on this:  In your opening 

statement just now, you seemed to imply that you are not yet confident that financial conditions 

are restrictive enough to finish the fight.  Is that true? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yes.  That’s exactly right.  You know, to say it a different way:  We 

haven’t made any decisions about, about future meetings.  We have not made a determination, 

and we’re not—I will say that we’re not confident at this time that we’ve reached such a stance.  

We’re not confident that we haven’t; we’re not confident that we have.  And that’s—that is—the 

way we’re going to be going into these future meetings is to be, you know, just determining the 

extent of any additional further policy tightening that may be appropriate to return inflation to 

2 percent over time.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jeanna. 

JEANNA SMIALEK.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Thank you so much for taking our questions.  I 

wonder, you know, if you don’t raise interest rates in December, would the presumption be at 

that point that we should expect that rates are at their peak, or is there a possibility of restarting 

rate increases next year?  And are there any costs to taking a more extended pause? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So, let me start by saying we haven’t made a decision about 

September.  You’re asking a hypothetical there.  But we’re going into December meeting—we’ll 

get, as you know, two more inflation ratings, two more labor market readings, some data on, on 

economic activity, and so we’ll be taking—and also the broader situation, the broader financial 

condition situation and broader world situation.  We’ll be looking at all those things as we make 

a decision in December.  We haven’t made that decision. 

Page 6 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

I would say, though, that, that the idea that if you—the idea that would—difficult to raise 

again after stopping for a meeting or two, it’s just not right.  I mean, the Committee will always 

do what it thinks is appropriate at the time.  And, again, we haven’t made any decisions about—

at all about December.  We didn’t even—we didn’t talk about making a decision in December 

today.  Really, it was a decision for this meeting and understanding broader things. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nick. 

NICK TIMIRAOS.  Nick Timiraos, the Wall Street Journal.  Chair Powell, did the Fed 

staff put a recession back into the baseline forecast in the materials for today’s meeting?  And 

how much does this tightening and financial conditions substitute for rate hikes if the tightening 

is persistent?  You had said it was worth maybe a ¼ point when we had the bank failures in the 

spring.  What is it here on something that’s presumably more straightforward and more familiar 

to simulate? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I guess I don’t want to answer your question about the—about the 

recession.  But the answer is “no.”  I think I have to answer it, since we did publicly say in the 

minutes—you’ll know anyway in the [next] minutes—the staff did not put a recession back in.  I 

mean, it would be hard to see how you would do that if you look at the—look at the activity 

we’ve seen recently, which is not really indicative of a recession in the near term.   

In terms of how to think about translation into rate hikes, I think it’s just too early to be 

doing that, and the main reason is we just don’t know how persistent this will be.  You can see 

how volatile it is.  Different kinds of news will affect the level of rates, and I think any kind of an 

estimate that was precise would hang out there and have a great chance of looking wrong very 

quickly.  So I think what we can say is that financial conditions have clearly tightened, and you 

can see that in the rates that, that consumers and households and businesses are paying now.  

Page 7 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

And over time, that will have an effect.  We just don’t know how persistent it’s going to be, and 

it’s tough to try to translate that in a way that I’d be comfortable communicating into how many 

rate hikes that is. 

NICK TIMIRAOS.  I’d like to follow up and ask what makes you confident—what 

makes you confident in the tighter financial conditions will slow above-trend growth when 

500 basis points of rate hikes, QT, and a minor banking crisis have not thus far? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, I just—that’s, you know, the way our policy works is—and 

sometimes it works with lags, of course, which can be long and variable, but ultimately, if you 

raise interest rates, you do see those effects.  And you see those effects in the economy now.  

You see what’s happening in the housing market.  You’re seeing that now.  You’ll see, if you 

look at surveys of people, it’s not a good time they think to buy durable goods of various kinds 

because rates are so high now.  I mention again, we’re getting reports from housing that the 

effects of this—of this could be quite significant.  But you’re right.  This has been a resilient 

economy.  And it’s, I think, been surprising in its resilience.  And there are a number of possible 

reasons why that may be.  Our job is to—is to achieve maximum employment and price stability, 

and so we take the economy as it comes.  It has been resilient, so we just—we take it as it is. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Colby. 

COLBY SMTH.  Thank you.  Colby Smith with the Financial Times.  In terms of the 

thresholds that you’ve laid out of what could warrant further tightening, the additional evidence 

of persistently above-trend growth, or some kind of reversal in the recent easing of labor market 

tightness—that seems to suggest something more powerful than just one more ¼ point rate hike 

would be necessary.  And I’m just curious if that’s how the Committee sees it. 

Page 8 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So we’ve identified those factors.  Those were not meant to be the 

only factors or a specific test that we’re going to be applying with some metrics behind it.  

Really, we’re going to be looking at the broader picture.  You know, what’s happening with our 

progress toward the 2 percent inflation goal?  Is the labor market continuing to, broadly, cool off 

and achieve a better balance?  We’ll be looking at that.  You know, growth—we look at growth 

insofar as it has implications for our two mandate goals.  We look at that, and we look at broader 

financial conditions.  So we’ll be looking at all of those things as we reach a judgment, you 

know, whether we need to further tighten policy.  And, if we do reach that judgment, then we 

will further tighten policy. 

COLBY SMITH.  Okay.  And just in terms of the tightening of financial conditions, if 

that is having some kind of offsetting effect in terms of the need to potentially again raise rates, 

what then is the potential impact on the trajectory of rate cuts?  Could we see those maybe pulled 

forward or have to see more than what the September SEP indicated? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So it’s, it’s—the fact is the Committee is not thinking about rate cuts 

right now at all.  We’re not talking about rate cuts.  We’re still very focused on the first question, 

which is, have we achieved a stance of monetary policy that’s sufficiently restrictive to bring 

inflation down to 2 percent over time sustainably?  That is the question we’re focusing on.  The 

next question, as you know, will be, for how long will we remain restrictive?  Will policy remain 

restrictive?  And what we’ve said there is that we’ll keep policy restrictive until we’re confident 

that inflation is on a sustainable path down to 2 percent.  That’ll be the next question, but 

honestly, right now we’re really tightly focused on the first question.  The question of rate cuts 

just doesn’t come up because I think the first—it’s so important to get that first question, you 

know, as close to right as you can.  

Page 9 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Steve.  

STEVE LIESMAN.  Steve Liesman, CNBC.  Mr. Chairman, I guess I had assumed that 

there was a tightening bias in the Committee.  You say in the statement you’re looking to assess 

the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the extent to which you may need to hike additionally.  

You didn’t say earlier that you were sufficiently restrictive.  There were forecasts for two rate 

hikes among most members of the Committee.  But then you just said that, you know, we 

don’t—we haven’t made a determination.  Would you say the bias right now is neutral, that there 

is no disposition to hike again and that the Committee largely has moved off of this forecast for 

two hikes?  Sorry, one additional— 

CHAIR POWELL.  No.  I wouldn’t say that at all.  I would say—I mean, the language, 

looking at it here, “In determining the extent of additional policy firming that may be appropriate 

to return inflation to 2 percent over time.”  That’s the question we’re asking.  

STEVE LIESMAN.  So is it right to think of that as a hiking bias is still in the Committee 

here?  

CHAIR POWELL.  We haven’t used that term, but it’s fair to say that’s the question 

we’re asking is, should we hike more?  It’s not—it’s not, you know—that is the question, and 

you’re right that, in September, we wrote down one additional rate hike.  But, you know—and 

we’ll [each] write down another forecast, as you know, in December.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Chris.  

CHRIS RUGABER.  Thank you, Chris Rugaber, at Associated Press.  Well, since the last 

meeting, the auto workers’ strike has finished, oil prices have leveled off, and yet, on the other 

hand, you have the outbreak of war between Israel and Hamas.  How do you see all those factors, 

taken together, affecting the economy going forward?  How are you thinking about those? 

Page 10 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So, there are significant issues out there, as you point out.  Global 

geopolitical tensions are certainly elevated.  And that goes for the war in Ukraine; it goes for the 

war between Israel and Hamas.  We’re monitoring that.  Our job is to monitor those things for 

their economic implications.  So, the UAW strike, as you point out is—appears to be coming to 

an end.  Oil prices have flattened out; they haven’t gone down.  I guess they’ve gone down a 

little bit from their earlier peak.  Another one is the possibility of government shutdown; we 

don’t know about that one.  So there’s plenty of risk out there.  But I would go back to—the 

bigger picture from our standpoint is, we’ve got a very strong economy, strong labor market, 

making progress on the labor market, making progress on inflation.  And we’re very focused on 

getting confident that we have achieved a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently 

restrictive.  That’s really our focus. 

CHRIS RUGABER.  Great.  And just one quick thing:  You, last month, had gone to 

York, Pennsylvania, where you talked to a lot of—or, yeah, last month, where you talked to a lot 

of small business owners.  Just curious, what sentiments did you hear from them or what did you 

pick up on and what would you—was there anything that surprised you the most in terms of 

what they talked about?  

CHAIR POWELL.  I wouldn’t say I was terribly surprised.  I was very impressed by 

York as a town with a real strategy.  And I would say it’s very impressive what the people there 

have put together in the face of, you know, some difficult longer-run trends about offshoring of 

manufacturing and that kind of thing.  They’ve done a great job as a city, I think.  You know, 

what you hear—and it’s consistent there—which is people are really suffering under high 

inflation.  You were there.  We talked to some people who, you know, were feeling that in their 

businesses and other people who were feeling it in their home lives as well.  You know, it’s 

Page 11 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

painful for people—particularly people who don’t have a lot of extra financial resources who are 

spending most of their incoming, you know, income on the essentials of life.  So we know that.  

That wasn’t new.  But that did come through very clearly in, in the conversations we had in 

York, and, you know, I walked away from that even—you know, I mean, just thinking that we 

really—the best thing we can do for the U.S. is to restore price stability—fully restore price 

stability and not fail in that task and do it as quickly as possible, but also with the least damage 

we can. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Rachel. 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  Hi Chair Powell.  Rachel Siegel from the Washington Post.  Thanks 

for taking our questions.  You’ve spoken before about the pain that would likely be coming for 

the economy in order to get inflation down.  But since the economy has not responded to rate 

hikes in ways that would normally be expected, have you changed your views on that at all—on 

how necessary or inevitable that kind of pain would be, say, for the labor market or overall 

growth? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, I think everyone has been very gratified to see that we’ve been 

able to achieve, you know, pretty significant progress on inflation without seeing the kind of 

increase in unemployment that has been very typical of rate hiking cycles like this one.  So 

that’s, that’s a historically unusual and very welcome result.  And the same is true of growth.  

You know, we’ve been saying that we need to see below-potential growth.  And growth has been 

strong, but yet we’re still seeing this.  I think I still believe, and my colleagues for the most part I 

think still believe, that is likely to be true.  It is still likely to be true—not a certainty—but likely 

that we will need to see some slower growth and some softening in the labor market—in labor 

market conditions to get, you know, to fully restore price stability.  So—but it’s only a good 

Page 12 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

thing that we haven’t seen it, and I think we know why.  You know, since, since we lifted off, 

we, we have understood that there are really two processes at work here.  One of them—one of 

which is the unwinding of the distortions to both supply and demand [that arose] from the 

pandemic and the response to the pandemic.  And the other is, is, you know, restrictive monetary 

policy, which is moderating demand and giving the supply side time to recover—time and space 

to recover.  So you see those two forces now working together to bring down inflation.  But it’s 

that first one can bring down inflation without the need for higher unemployment or slower 

growth, it’s just—it’s supply—you know, supply-side improvements like shortages and 

bottlenecks and that kind of thing going away.  It’s getting, you know, a significant increase in 

the size of the labor market now, both from labor force participation and from immigration.  

That’s a big supply-side, you know, gain that is really helping the economy, and it’s part of 

why—part of why GDP is so high is because we’re getting that supply.  So, we welcome that.  

But I think those things will run their course, and we’re probably still going to be left—we think, 

and I think—we’ll still be left with some ground to cover to get back to full price stability.  And 

that’s where monetary policy and what we do with demand is still going to be important. 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  Against that backdrop, if you’ve gotten any clarity on lags—if you 

have an economy that’s been so resilient to high rate increases, does that suggest to you that 

there isn’t necessarily this huge wave of tightening that's still coming through the pipeline and 

that it may have already come into effect? 

CHAIR POWELL.  You know, I continue to think it’s very hard to say.  So it’s been one 

year at this meeting—one year ago, this was the fourth of our 75 basis points hikes.  So that’s a 

full year since then.  I think we are seeing the effects of, of all the hiking we did last year and this 

year—we’re seeing it.  It’s very hard to know exactly what that might be.  But you can, for 

Page 13 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

example—an example where you wouldn’t have felt this yet is, is debt that had been termed out.  

But it’s going to come due and have to get rolled over next year or the year after.  So—and there 

are little things like that where the effects have just taken time to get into the economy.  So I 

don’t—I think we have to make monetary policy under great uncertainty about how long the lags 

are.  I think trying to make a clear—get a clear answer and say, “I’m just going to assume this is 

really not a good way to do it.”  And this is one of the reasons why we have slowed the process 

down this year, was to give monetary policy time to get into the economy.  And it takes time.  

We know that, and you can’t rush it.  So, doing—slowing down is giving us, I think, a better 

sense of, of how much more we need to do, if we need to do more. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Michael.  

MICHAEL MCKEE.  Michael McKee from Bloomberg Television and Radio.  I’m 

trying to connect the dots here.  One quick clarification I wanted to ask about Rachel’s question 

is, you said you need slower growth.  You had always said before a period of lower-than-trend 

growth.  Has that changed?  And, two, it sounds to me like you’re basically saying here that kind 

of the dot plot’s out the window, that every meeting is live with the possibility of a rate increase 

for right now—doesn’t matter about the turn of the year—and that there’s not an objective way 

to determine whether or not you’ve got enough tightening in the system.  It’s just going to be a 

subjective judgment, meeting by meeting.  

CHAIR POWELL.  Well so, let’s talk about the dot plot first.  So the dot plot is a picture 

in time of what the people in the Committee think is likely to be appropriate monetary policy in 

light of their own personal economic forecast.  In principle, when things change, it’s not—that’s 

not, like, planned that anybody’s agreed to or that we will do.  That’s a forecast that would 

change, for example—I mean, many things could change that would cause people to say, “I 

Page 14 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

wouldn’t write down that dot six weeks later.”  Think of the number of things that could change 

your mind on that.  So I think the efficacy of the dot plot probably decays over the three-month 

period between that meeting and the next meeting.  But, nonetheless, it’s out there.  We don’t—

we do personally update our forecast, but we don’t formally update the dot plot.  So, you know, I 

think we try to be as transparent as we can about the way we’re thinking about these things.  

We’re laying out there our thinking, and, you know, as we approach the meeting, we’ll all be—

my colleagues and I will be talking about how we’re processing that data. 

In terms of—so we’re not really changing the way—in terms of growth, what I said was 

“below potential.”  So what you have here recently is growth that is—that is temporarily—

potential growth is elevated for a year or two right now over its trend level.  So the right way to 

think about it is, what’s potential growth this year?  People think trend growth over a long period 

of time is a little bit less than 2 percent, or I would say just around 2 percent.  But what we’ve 

had is, with the—with the, you know, improvement in the size of the labor force, as I mentioned, 

through both participation and immigration, and with the, the, you know, the better functioning 

in the labor market and with the—with the, you know, the unwinding of the supply chain and 

shortages and those kinds of things, you’re seeing actually elevated potential growth.  There’s 

catch-up growth that can happen in potential.  And that means that if you’re growing—you could 

be growing at 2 percent this year and still be growing below the increase in the potential output 

of the economy.  I hope that’s clear.  That’s really what’s going on.  That’s why I would say it as 

below potential. 

MICHAEL MCKEE.  But if you could clarify what I asked about the meeting by 

meeting, are we essentially now supposed to assume that it’s a meeting by meeting, live meeting 

Page 15 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

with a chance of a rate increase that will be decided on subjective criteria rather than objective at 

each meeting? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I mean, I don’t know that I want to just accept anybody’s 

characterization, but I’ll tell you how we’re doing this.  So, we’re going meeting by meeting.  

We’re asking ourselves whether we’ve achieved a stance of policy that is sufficiently restrictive 

to bring inflation down to 2 percent over time.  That’s the question we’re asking.  We’re looking 

at the full range of economic data, including financial conditions and all of those things that we 

look at, and then we’re, we’re—you know, we’ve, we’ve come very far with this rate hiking 

cycle, very far.  And you saw the spread at the September meeting of—you know, it’s a 

relatively small spread of—people think one or two additional hikes.  So you’re close to the—to 

the end of the cycle.  That’s—that was an impression as of, I believe, as of September.  It’s not a 

promise or a plan of the future.  And so we’re going into these meetings one by one.  We’re 

looking at the data.  As I mentioned, we’re also—we’re being careful.  We’re proceeding 

carefully because we can proceed carefully at this time.  Monetary policy is restrictive.  We see 

its effects, particularly in interest-sensitive spending and other channels.  So that’s how I think 

about it. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Neil. 

NEIL IRWIN.  Thanks.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Neil Irwin with Axios.  In light of the run-up 

in long-term yields we’ve seen the last several weeks, have you given any consideration to the 

pace of your asset runoff program?  And if there were judgment that higher—that the higher-

term premium was endangering the dual-mandate goals, would that be reason to think about 

slowing or suspending QT or should we think of that as a more technical question around 

reserves? 

Page 16 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So the Committee is not considering changing the pace of balance 

sheet runoff.  It’s not something we’re talking about or considering, and I know there are many 

candidate explanations for why rates have been going up.  And QT is certainly on that list.  It 

may be playing a relatively small effect, although I would say at $3.3 trillion in reserves, it’s 

not—I think—I think it’s hard to make a case that reserves are even close to scarce at this point.  

So that’s not something that we’re—that we’re looking at right now. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Victoria.  

VICTORIA GUIDA.  Hi.  Victoria Guida with Politico.  I wanted to ask about the Basel 

III Endgame capital proposal.  You’ve gotten a lot of “pushback” from people on different 

aspects of the proposal, and you yourself expressed some reservations.  And I’m just curious:  

Could you accept finalizing that proposal without significant changes?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So, that proposal is out for comment.  And we expect a lot of 

comment.  We won’t get those comments until the end of, well, into next year.  You know, 

we’ve extended the deadline.  And we’ll take them seriously.  We’ll read them.  I’ll say what, 

what I do expect is that we will—we will come to a—we’re a consensus-driven organization.  

We’ll come to a package that has broad support on the Board. 

VICTORIA GUIDA.  So is broad support mean more support than the proposal had? 

CHAIR POWELL.  It means broad support. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jonnelle. 

JONNELLE MARTE.  Jonnelle Marte with Bloomberg.  So, in addition to persistence, 

when you look at long-term Treasury yields, what else are you watching to evaluate how those 

tighter financial conditions are hitting the economy and if it will lessen the need for further 

tightening?  Also, do you think that those higher yields could affect banking stress?  

Page 17 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So what do we look at?  We look at a very wide range of financial 

conditions and, in fact, as you’ll know, different organizations publish different financial 

conditions’ indexes, which can have, you know, 7 or 8 variables, or they can have 100 variables, 

so there’s a very rich environment.  And we tend to look at a few of them.  I’m not going to give 

you the names, but, you know, they’re a few of the common ones that people look at.  And so 

they’re looking at things like the level of the dollar, the level of equity prices, the level of rates, 

the credit spreads.  Sometimes they’re pulling in credit availability and things like that, so it isn’t 

any one thing.  We would never look at, for example, long-term Treasury rates in isolation, nor 

would we ignore them.  But we would look at them as part of a broader picture, and they do play 

a role, of course, in many of the major standard financial condition indexes.  Your second 

question was?  

JONNELLE MARTE.  On the banking stress. 

CHAIR POWELL.  Banking stress—so it’s something we’re watching.  As you know, 

we, we did have—there were issues with interest rate risk and also funding uninsured deposits in 

the March—the things we went through in March and thereafter.  And so we’ve been working a 

lot with financial institutions to make sure that they have good funding plans and good—and that 

they have a plan for how to deal with the kind of portfolio, unrealized, losses that they have.  

And we do think the banking system is quite resilient.  We had, you know, a handful of bank 

failures but—so that’s, that’s what we’re out there doing.  And we don’t have any reason to think 

that this—that these rate hikes are materially changing that picture, which is one of a strong 

banking system and one where there’s a strong focus by banks and by supervisors on liquidity, 

on funding, and those sorts of things. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Scott. 

Page 18 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

SCOTT HORSLEY.  Thanks, Mr. Chairman.  Scott Horsley from NPR.  Last week you 

and your colleagues put forward a proposal to lower the cap on debit card swipe fees for 

comment.  Could you just talk a little bit about the considerations there—what it would mean for 

merchants, for banks, for consumers, and also just what you all are seeing in terms of the use of 

both debit and credit cards in the—in the payment system? 

CHAIR POWELL.  You know, so you’re right.  We put a proposal out for comment, is 

what we did.  And, you know, this is a job that Congress assigned us, as you, of course, know, in 

Dodd-Frank, and all we can really do is faithfully implement the statute.  That’s, that’s all we’re 

trying to do.  What else can we really do?  It’s a 90-day comment period, and we typically don’t 

comment on these things once they’re out for—out for comment.  And we do hope that 

stakeholders—and we know that they will use this opportunity to express their views.  They 

haven’t been shy about that.  So that’s, that’s critical and that’s, that’s what I can say about that 

now. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Edward.  

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  Thank you.  Thanks, Chair.  Edward Lawrence with Fox 

Business.  So for the last three months, the year-over-year PCE inflation was at 3.4 percent, core 

well over 3 percent.  You’ve said in the past, 2 percent remains the Federal Reserve target, but 

with no rate increase today, how long would you be okay then with a 3 percent or 3 percent plus 

overall inflation? 

CHAIR POWELL.  You know, the, the progress is probably going to come in lumps and 

be bumpy, but we’re making progress.  You know, I think the core PCE [inflation rate] came 

down by almost 60 basis points in the third quarter.  So the best thing I could point you to would 

be the September SEP where, you know, the expectation was that, that inflation by the end of 

Page 19 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

next year, on a 12-month trailing basis, would be well into the 2s and the year after that, further 

into the 2s.  So that’s, that’s—if you look historically, that’s, that’s sort of consistent with the 

way inflation comes down.  It does take some time, and as you get—you know, as you get 

further and further from those highs, it may actually take longer time.  But the good news is, you 

know, we’re making progress and monetary policy is restrictive.  And we feel like we’re on a 

path to make more progress, and it’s essential that we do. 

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  But you’ve said in the past that doing too little on interest 

rates could take years to fix, but the cost of doing too much could be easily fixed.  How robust 

was the debate about this pause on the doing-too-little side? 

CHAIR POWELL.  That’s always the question we’re asking ourselves.  And we know 

that, if we fail to restore price stability, the risk is that expectations of higher inflation get 

entrenched in the economy, and we know that that’s really bad for people.  Inflation will be both 

more—both higher and more volatile.  That’s a—that’s a prescription for misery, and, and so 

we’re really committed to not letting that happen.  You know, for the first year or so of our 

tightening cycle, the risk was all on the side of not doing enough.  We’re, you know, we’re—

we’ve come far enough that, that the risks, you know, have gotten more two sided.  You can’t 

identify that with a lot of precision, but it does feel like the, the risks are more two sided now.  

And—but we’re committed to getting inflation back down to our target over time, and we will. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Simon. 

SIMON RABINOVITCH.  Hi, Simon Rabinovitch with the Economist.  Quick follow-up 

to the question about banking stresses—you talked about how the banking system is resilient.  Of 

course, part of the resilience the past year stems from the Bank Term Funding Program that you 

launched in March.  Given that bond prices have not recovered, that unrealized losses are 

Page 20 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

probably mounting, how likely is it that you might have to extend that program in March next 

year? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Good question.  We haven’t really—we haven’t really been thinking 

about that yet.  We—you know, it’s November 1, and that’s a decision we’ll be making in the 

first quarter of next year. 

SIMON RABINOVITCH.  Okay.  Sorry.  Quick second question about inflation 

expectations—the U. Michigan sentiment survey showed a big jump in one-year-ahead inflation 

expectations last month from 3.2 to 4.2.  Last year you said that particular survey was a really 

decisive factor in one of your rate hike decisions.  If it stays elevated next time around, how big 

of an input will that be into your December thinking? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah.  We look at a range of, of things.  I think the, the, the, you 

know, the UM thing got blown out of proportion a little bit.  It was actually a preliminary 

estimate that got revised away.  And I said it was preliminary in it, but that didn’t get picked up. 

So we look at many, many things.  So really, look across the broad array of surveys and also 

market-based estimates, and, you know, we do that really carefully at every meeting and between 

meetings.  And, you know, there’s—it’s just clear that inflation expectations are in a good place.  

The public does believe that inflation will get back down to 2 percent over time,.  And it will—

they’re right.  So—and there’s no real crack in that—in that armor.  You can always find one 

reading that is a little bit out of whack, but, honestly, the bulk of them are just very clear that the 

public believes that inflation will come down.  And that’s, of course—we believe that’s critical 

in winning the battle. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Megan. 

Page 21 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

MEGAN CASSELLA.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Megan Cassella with Barron’s.  Thanks for 

taking our questions.  I wanted to see if you could talk about the neutral rate.  You mentioned 

today that you’re still debating whether rates are sufficiently restrictive, and you’ve recently said 

that evidence is suggesting policy is not too tight right now.  So I was curious if you could 

elaborate on that at all and whether that means the neutral rate, in your view, has risen. 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah.  So first thing to say is that it’s very important.  It’s a very 

important variable in, in the way we think about monetary policy, but you can’t identify it with 

any precision in real time.  And we know that.  So you have to just take that—you have to take 

your estimate of it with a grain of salt.  What we know now is, you know, within a range of 

estimates of the neutral rate policy, is restrictive, and it’s therefore putting downward pressure on 

economic activity, hiring, and inflation.  So we do—we do talk about this.  There’s not any 

debate or attempt to, you know, to sort of agree as a group on what—whether r* has moved or 

not.  Some people think it has, some people haven’t said—that don’t think it has.  Ultimately, it’s 

unknowable, and so really again, what we’re focused on is, you know, looking at the data and 

giving ourselves a little more time now to look carefully at the data by being careful in our 

moves.  Does it—does it feel like monetary policy is restrictive enough to bring inflation down 

to 2 percent over time?  That’s the question we’re asking ourselves.  I think, you know, years 

from now economists will be revising their estimates of r* as it existed on November 1, 2023.  

You can’t—we can’t really wait for that in making policy.  We have to look—we have to have 

those models and look at them and think about them, and, ultimately, we’ve got to look at the 

effects that policy is having, accounting for the lags, which makes it difficult.  

Page 22 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

MEGAN CASSELLA.  If I could follow up on a wages point.  Earlier you talked about 

the inflation outlook, but I’m curious if you have any concerns whether wage inflation at its 

current level could be—could risk pushing up overall inflation or re-acceleration? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So, if you look at the—look at the broad range of wages, they have—

wage increases have really come down significantly over the course of the last 18 months to a 

level where they’re substantially closer to that level that would be consistent with 2 percent 

inflation over time, making standard assumptions about productivity over time.  So it’s much 

closer than it was.  And that’s true of the ECI, which is the one that’s—the one that we got this 

week.  It’s true of average hourly earnings and compensation per hour, too.  So—and all of them 

are kind of saying that, which is great.  And you have to look at a group of them because any one 

of them can be idiosyncratic from—in any given reading.  So that’s what you see.  And so what 

you saw with the ECI reading was, if you look back a couple—it comes out four times a year—if 

you look back a couple of quarters, you’ll see it was much higher, then it came down 

substantially in June.  And then the September reading was more or less at the same level as the 

June reading.  So, in a way, it’s just validating that decline, and it was very close to our 

expectations internally, too.  So I think we feel good about that.  Also I would say it isn’t—in my 

thinking, it’s not the case that, that wages have been the principal driver of inflation so far, 

although I think it’s all—I do think it’s fair to say that, as we go forward, as monetary policy 

becomes more important relative to the supply-side issues I’ve talked about in the unwinding of 

the pandemic effects, it may be that the labor market becomes more important over time, too. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nancy. 

Page 23 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER.  Hi.  Nancy Marshall-Genzer with Marketplace.  Chair 

Powell, are you now as concerned about overshooting and raising interest rates too much as you 

are about getting inflation down to the 2 percent target? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So, as I mentioned, I think for much of the last year and a half, the 

concern was not doing too, too—not doing enough.  It was not getting rates high enough in time 

to avoid having inflation expectations—higher inflation expectations become entrenched.  So 

that was the concern.  I think we’ve reached, you know, now more than 18 months into this.  

You can see by the fact that we have slowed down, although we’re still—we’re still—we’re still 

trying to gain confidence in what the appropriate stance is.  But you can see that.  We think, and 

I think, that the risks are getting more balanced.  I’ll just say that they’re getting more balanced.  

The risk of doing too much versus the risk of doing too little are getting—are getting more—

closer to balance, because policy is I think clearly restrictive at 5¼ to 5½ percent.  That range, if 

you take off a mainstream estimate of the expected inflation, take one year inflation, you’re 

going to see that.  You’re going to see a real policy rate that is well above mainstream estimates 

of a neutral policy rate.  Now that’s arithmetic.  It doesn’t really—the proof is really in how the 

economy reacts, but I would say that we’re in a place where those risks are getting closer to 

being in balance. 

NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER.  Okay.  And you said the proof is how the economy 

reacts.  What are you looking at to be sure you’re not overshooting? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, I think what we’re looking at is are we still—is inflation still 

broadly cooling?  Do we—is it sort of validating the path we saw over the summer, where 

inflation was clearly cooling and coming down.  Now we’ve seen periods like that before, and 

they’ve just—there hasn’t been follow-through.  The data have bounced back.  So what are we 

Page 24 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

seeing?  Are we seeing—is inflation still coming down?  So that’s the first thing.  The second 

thing is, in the labor market, what we’ve seen is a very positive rebalancing of supply and 

demand, partly through just much more supply coming online.  And with labor demand still 

clearly remaining very strong—when you have the kind of job growth we’ve had over the last 

quarter, it’s still very strong demand.  So—and you see wage increases coming down as we 

discussed but coming down in a kind of gradual way.  I think that’s—we want to see that, that 

whole set of processes continue. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Bryan. 

BRYAN MENA.  Bryan Mena, CNN.  Do you think that there has been any structural 

change in either consumption or in the job market that’s pushing at consumption?  You 

obviously saw the third-quarter GDP figures, which were strong, and some economists expect 

everyone’s spending to have fizzled out by now.  So I’m kind of wondering if there’s been any 

structural change in consumption. 

CHAIR POWELL.  I wouldn’t say there’s been a structural change in consumption.  I 

would say it’s certainly been strong.  And so a couple of things.  We may have underestimated 

the balance sheet strength of households and small businesses, and that may be part of it.  There 

may be—you know, we’ve been, like everyone else, trying to estimate the number—the amount 

of savings that households have from the pandemic when they couldn’t spend on services really 

at all, or in-person services.  And, you know, there can still be more of that than we think, 

although at a certain point we have to—we’re going to be getting back to pre-pandemic levels of 

savings.  We may not be there yet.  So things are—clearly, people are still spending.  The 

dynamic has been really strong job creation with now wages that are—that are higher than 

inflation, in the aggregate anyway, and that raises real disposable income, and that raises 

Page 25 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

spending, which continues to drive more hiring.  And so you’ve had a really—that whole—that 

whole dynamic has been, and also at the same time, the pandemic effects are wearing off, so that 

goods availability, automobile availability is better—or was better, I think it still is.  And, from a 

business standpoint, there are more people to hire.  And it is more labor supply.  So the whole 

thing has led to more growth, more spending, and that kind of thing.  And it’s been—you know, 

it’s been good, and the thing is, we’ve been achieving progress on inflation in the middle of this.  

So, it’s been a dynamic.  The question is, how long can that continue?  And, you know, I just 

think this—the existence of this second set of factors at this time, which is the unwinding of the 

pandemic effects, that’s what makes this cycle unique, I think, and, you know, we’re still 

learning.  That took longer for that process to begin than we thought, and we’re still learning 

about how it plays out.  That’s all we can do. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Let’s go to Daniel for the last question.  

DANIEL AVIS.  Thank you, Chair Powell.  I’m Daniel Avis from Agence France-Presse.  

Just a quick question following up on an earlier one with regards to the Israel–Hamas conflict. 

The Fed’s Financial Stability Report said the Israel–Hamas conflict and the conflict in Ukraine 

“pose important risks to global economic activity, including the possibility of sustained 

disruptions to regional trade and food, energy, and other commodities.”  You’ve had 

organizations at the World Bank warning of a possible surge in oil prices if the war spreads to 

other countries in the region.  I’m just wondering how the Fed is monitoring these developments 

in the Middle East—you mentioned they are—and just what the potential economic impact could 

be if the conflict does spread to other countries in the region.  Thank you.  

CHAIR POWELL.  I wouldn’t want to speculate too much, but I’ll just say so—you 

know, really the question there is, does the war spread more widely and does it start to do things 

Page 26 of 27 

 
 
 
November 1, 2023 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

like affect oil prices in particular, since this is the Middle East we’re talking about.  The price of 

oil has really not reacted very much so far to this.  As the—you know, as the Fed—as the Federal 

Open Market Committee, our job is really to talk about [and] to understand the economy and 

economic effects.  And it isn’t clear, at this point, that the conflict in the Middle East is going 

to—is on track to have significant economic effects.  That doesn’t mean it isn’t incredibly 

important and something for people to, you know, to take really important notice of, but it may 

or may not turn out to be something that matters for the Federal Open Market Committee as an 

economic body.  But—so what the Financial Stability Report does is it “calls out” risks.  And 

that’s what it’s doing—[it] is calling out a risk of that. 

And the war in Ukraine, the same.  The war in Ukraine did have, immediately, very 

significant macroeconomic implications because of the connection to commodities. 

So, thank you.  Thanks very much. 

Page 27 of 27