SOURCE: https://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/files/FOMCpresconf20240131.pdf

January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

Transcript of Chair Powell’s Press Conference 
January 31, 2024 

CHAIR POWELL.  Good afternoon.  My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on 

our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people.  

The economy has made good progress toward our dual-mandate objectives.  Inflation has eased 

from its highs without a significant increase in unemployment.  That’s very good news.  But 

inflation is still too high, ongoing progress in bringing it down is not assured, and the path 

forward is uncertain.  I want to assure the American people that we’re fully committed to 

returning inflation to our 2 percent goal.  Restoring price stability is essential to achieve a 

sustained period of strong labor market conditions that benefit all. 

Today, the FOMC decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to 

reduce our securities holdings.  Over the past two years, we’ve significantly tightened the stance 

of monetary policy.  Our strong actions have moved our policy rate well into restrictive territory, 

and we’ve been seeing the effects on economic activity and inflation.  As labor market tightness 

has eased and progress on inflation has continued, the risks to achieving our employment and 

inflation goals are moving into better balance.  I will have more to say about monetary policy—

about monetary policy, after briefly reviewing economic developments. 

Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has been expanding at a solid pace.  

GDP growth in the fourth quarter of last year came in at 3.3 percent.  For 2023 as a whole, GDP 

expanded at 3.1 percent, bolstered by strong consumer demand as well as improving supply 

conditions.  Activity in the housing sector was subdued over the past year, largely reflecting high 

mortgage rates.  High interest rates also appear to have been weighing on business fixed 

investment. 

Page 1 of 27 

 
 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

The labor market remains tight, but supply and demand conditions continue to come into 

better balance.  Over the past three months, payroll job gains averaged 165,000 jobs per month, a 

pace that is well below that seen a year ago but still strong.  The unemployment rate remains low 

at 3.7 percent.  Strong job creation has been accompanied by an increase in the supply of 

workers.  The labor force participation rate has moved up, on balance, over the past year, 

particularly for individuals aged 25 to 54 years, and immigration has returned to pre-pandemic 

levels.  Nominal wage growth has been easing, and job vacancies have declined.  Although the 

jobs-to-workers gap has narrowed, labor demand still exceeds the supply of available workers. 

Inflation has eased notably over the past year but remains above our longer-run goal of 

2 percent.  Total PCE prices rose 2.6 percent over the 12 months ending in December; excluding 

the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.9 percent.  The lower inflation 

readings over the second half of last year are welcome.  But we will need to see continuing 

evidence to build confidence that inflation is moving down sustainably toward our goal.  Longer-

term inflation expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of 

surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets. 

The Fed’s monetary policy actions are guided by our mandate to promote maximum 

employment and stable prices for the American people.  My colleagues and I are acutely aware 

that high inflation imposes significant hardship, as it erodes purchasing power, especially for 

those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation.  

We’re highly attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and 

we’re strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. 

Over the past two years, we have raised our policy rate by 5¼ percentage points, and 

we’ve decreased our securities holdings by more than $1.3 trillion.  Our restrictive stance of 

Page 2 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

monetary policy is putting downward pressure on economic activity and inflation.  The 

Committee decided at today’s meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 

5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. 

We believe that our policy rate is likely at its peak for this tightening cycle and that, if the 

economy evolves broadly as expected, it will likely be appropriate to begin dialing back policy 

restraint at some point this year.  But the economy has surprised forecasters in many ways since 

the pandemic, and ongoing progress toward our 2 percent inflation objective is not assured.  The 

economic outlook is uncertain, and we remain highly attentive to inflation risks.  We’re prepared 

to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for longer if appropriate. 

As labor market tightness has eased and progress on inflation has continued, the risks to 

achieving our employment and inflation goals are moving into better balance.  We know that 

reducing policy restraint too soon or too much could result in a reversal of the progress we’ve 

seen on inflation and ultimately require even tighter policy to get inflation back to 2 percent.  At 

the same time, reducing policy restraint too late or too little could unduly weaken economic 

activity and employment.  In considering any adjustments to the target range for the federal 

funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the 

balance of risks.  The Committee does not expect that it will be appropriate to reduce the target 

range until it has gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent.  

We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting. 

We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to 

keeping longer-run—longer-term inflation expectations well anchored.  Restoring price stability 

is essential to set the stage for achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the 

longer run. 

Page 3 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

To conclude:  We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and 

businesses across the country.  Everything we do is in service to our public mission.  We at the 

Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum-employment and price-stability goals. 

Thank you.  I look forward to our questions. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jeanna. 

JEANNA SMIALEK.  Jeanna Smialek from the New York Times.  Thanks for taking our 

questions.  Obviously, in the statement and just in your remarks there, you note that you don’t 

want to cut interest rates without greater confidence that inflation is coming—coming down 

fully.  I wonder—what do you need to see at this point to gain that confidence?  And as you 

make those decisions, how are you weighing recent strong growth in consumer spending data 

against the sort of solid inflation progress you’ve been seeing? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Sorry—say that last part again. 

JEANNA SMIALEK.  How are—how are you weighing the growth data and 

consumption data, which have been surprisingly strong, against inflation data? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Okay.  So, what are we looking for to get greater confidence?  Let 

me say that we have confidence.  We’re—we’re looking for greater confidence that inflation is 

moving sustainably down to 2 percent.  Implicitly, we do have confidence, and it has been 

increasing, but we want to get greater confidence.  What do we want to see?  We want to see 

more good data.  It’s not that we’re looking for better data.  It’s—we’re looking at continuation 

of the good data that we’ve been seeing, and a good example is inflation.  So we have six months 

of good inflation data.  The question really is, that six months of good inflation data—is it 

sending us a true signal that we are, in fact, on a path—a sustainable path down to 2 percent 

inflation?  That’s the question.  And the answer will come from some more data that’s also good 

Page 4 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

data.  It doesn’t—it’s not that the six-month data isn’t—isn’t low enough.  It is.  It’s just a 

question of, can we take that with confidence that we’re moving sustainably down to 2 percent?  

That’s really what we’re thinking about. 

In terms of, of growth, we’ve had strong growth.  I mean, if you take a step back, we’ve 

had strong growth—very strong growth [in real GDP] last year—going right into the fourth 

quarter.  And yet we’ve had a very strong labor market, and we’ve had inflation coming down.  

So I think—whereas a year ago, we, we were thinking that we needed to see some softening in 

economic activity—that hasn’t been the case.  So I think we, we look at—we look at stronger 

growth.  We don’t look at it as a problem.  I think, at this point, we want to see strong growth.  

We want to see a strong labor market.  We’re not looking for a weaker labor market.  We’re 

looking for inflation to continue to come down, as it has been coming down for the last six 

months. 

JEANNA SMIALEK.  And I’m sorry.  If I could just follow up very quickly, the—when, 

when you say that you want to make sure that it’s a true signal, is there anything that you’re 

seeing in the data that makes you doubt that it’s a true signal at this stage? 

CHAIR POWELL.  No, I think it’s—I, I would say it, it seems—it seems to be the likely 

case that, that we will achieve that confidence, but we have to achieve it, and we haven’t yet.  

And so—I mean, it’s a good story.  We have six months of good inflation [readings].  But you 

can—and you know this—you can look behind those numbers, and you can see that a lot of it’s 

been coming from goods inflation, for example, and goods inflation running significantly 

negative.  It’s a reasonable assumption that, over time, goods inflation will flatten out—probably 

approximate zero.  That would mean the services sectors would have to contribute more. So, in 

other words, what we care about is the aggregate number—not so much the composition.  But 

Page 5 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

we, we just need to see more.  That’s where we are, as a Committee.  We need to see more 

evidence that sort of confirms what we think we’re seeing and that tells us that we are on—gives 

us confidence that we’re on, on a path to—a sustainable path down to 2 percent inflation. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nick. 

NICK TIMIRAOS.  Nick Timiraos of the Wall Street Journal.  Chair Powell, it seems to 

me you raised rates rapidly over the last two years for two reasons.  One was the risk of a wage–

price spiral.  Two, there were risks of inflation expectations becoming unanchored.  This 

morning’s ECI report for the fourth quarter shows private-sector payroll growth running at a 

sub–4 percent pace.  Inflation expectations are very close to where they were before the inflation 

emergency of the last three years.  And, given that you appear to have substantially cut off these 

two tail risks and that you’ve judged here today current policy as well into restrictive territory, 

what good reason is there to keep policy rates above 5 percent?  Are you really going to learn 

more waiting six weeks versus three months from now that you have avoided those two risks? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So, as you know, almost every participant on the Committee does 

believe that it will be appropriate to reduce rates and for, for—partly for the reasons that you say.  

You know, we, we feel like inflation is coming down.  Growth has been strong.  The labor 

market is strong.  We’re—what we’re trying to do is identify a place where we’re really 

confident about inflation getting back down to 2 percent so that we can then begin the process of 

dialing back the restrictive level.  So, overall, I think—I think people do believe—and, as you 

know, the median participant wrote down three rate cuts this year.  But I think to get to that place 

where we feel comfortable starting the process, we need some confirmation that inflation is, in 

fact, coming down sustainably to 2 percent. 

Page 6 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

NICK TIMIRAOS.  If I could ask differently:  If, if you hold rates high as inflation 

moderates, as it—as it has been, target rates will exceed the prescriptions of the Taylor rule or its 

variants.  What would be the reasoning for holding rates higher than the levels recommended by 

those rules in the current instance? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, I—look, I think, as you know, we consult the range of Taylor 

rules and, and non-Taylor kind of rules.  We consult them regularly.  They’re in our, our 

Tealbook, and, and they’re in all the materials that we look at.  But, you know, I don’t think 

we’ve ever been at a—at a place where we were—where we were setting policy by them.  And 

there—depending on the rule, it will tell you different things.  There are many different 

formulations.  Another way to think about it is, implicitly, is—so, in theory, of course, real rates 

go up if—holding all else equal—as inflation comes down.  But that doesn’t mean we can 

mechanically adjust policy as real rates—sorry—as inflation comes down.  It doesn’t mean that 

at all, because, for one thing, we, we don’t know—we, we look at more than just the fed funds 

rate.  We look at—broadly—financial conditions. 

But, in addition, we don’t know with great confidence where the neutral rate of interest is 

at any given time.  But that also doesn’t mean that we wait around for—to see, you know, the 

economy turn down, because that would be too late.  So we’re really in a risk-management 

mode:  of managing the risk—as I mentioned in my opening remarks—managing the risk that we 

move too soon and move too late.  And I think to move, which is—which is where almost 

everyone on the Committee is—is in favor of, of moving rates down this year—but the timing of 

that is going to be linked to our gaining confidence that inflation is on a sustainable path down to 

2 percent. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Howard. 

Page 7 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Hi.  Thanks, Chair Powell.  I’d like you to, to key in on the 

use of the word in, in the statement that inflation still “remains elevated.”  You’ve pledged to cut 

rates before inflation reached 2 percent.  So that implies that there’s some sort of intermediate 

step here on, on inflation and that a, a cut would be consequent with a change in the statement 

language that inflation “remains elevated.”  What’s the step-down from there? 

CHAIR POWELL. Yeah, I, I don’t know that we’ve worked out the particulars—

statement language and that kind of thing.  I would just say, if you look at—you know, look at 

where, where 12-month inflation is, and it’s, you know, it’s still well above—core is 2.9 percent, 

for example—12-month—which is way down from where it was.  Very, very positive 

development—very fast decline—and, and, you know, the, the case is likely that it will continue 

to come down.  So, so that’s where—that’s where it is.  But we’re, you know, we’re wanting to 

see, you know, more data. 

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  So, if I—if I could follow up on that, the statement allows 

that you want greater confidence on inflation falling before you cut, but it doesn’t mention the 

other side of the mandate—a slide in employment.  Would a slide in employment also bring you 

to the point of, of cutting rates? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yes.  So let me say that we’re not looking for that.  That’s not 

something we’re looking for.  But, yes, if you think about, you know—in, in the base case, the 

economy is performing well—the labor market remains strong.  If we saw an unexpected 

weakening in, in—certainly in the labor market, that would certainly weigh on cutting sooner.   

Absolutely.  And if we saw inflation being stickier or higher or those sorts of things—would 

argue for moving later.  In the base case, though, where, where the economy is healthy and we 

have, you know, we have ongoing growth—solid growth—we have a strong labor market—we 

Page 8 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

have inflation coming down—that’s what people are writing their SEP [submissions] around.  

And in that case, what we’re saying is, based on that, we think we can and should take advantage 

of that and, and be careful as we approach that question of when to begin to dial back restriction. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Claire.  

CLAIRE JONES.  Claire Jones, Financial Times.  Just to circle back to the “greater 

confidence” aspect of the statement, there’s been a lot of unanimity in recent meetings.  I’m just 

wondering, going forward, when it comes to all needing greater confidence, is there unanimity 

or, at least, consensus among FOMC members about what the threshold for that greater 

confidence is?  And if not, could you maybe tell us a little bit about the discussion today on, you 

know, what the variations between FOMC members was on what constitutes enough confidence 

to cut rates and also if there was any variation on how quickly that “greater confidence” 

threshold could be reached?  Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL.  So we’re not—we’re not really at that stage. You know, we’re—

we’re—there was no proposal to cut rates.  Some people did, you know, talk about their view of 

the rate path.  I would point you to the [December 2023] SEP as, as, you know, as good evidence 

of where people are, although it is—it is [now] one [FOMC meeting] cycle later.  So, you know, 

we’re not—we’re not at a place of, of really working out those kinds of details, because we 

weren’t actively considering, you know, a—moving, moving the federal funds rate down.  I will 

say, there is a—there is a wide disparity—a healthy disparity—of views, and you see that in 

public, public statements, in the minutes, and the transcripts when they’re released every five 

years.  So we do have a healthy set of differences, and I think that’s actually essential for making 

good policy.  We’re also able to reach agreement, generally, because we listen to each other—

Page 9 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

we, we compromise.  And even though not everybody loves what we do, they’re able to—for the 

most part—able to join in.  To me, that’s a well-functioning public institution. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Rachel. 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Rachel Siegel from the Washington Post.  Thanks 

for taking our questions.  So, over the past few years, there have been all these real-time 

indicators that helped us gain a sharper understanding of where the economy was, like 

OpenTable data or office attendance.  You’ve talked about vacancies in the past.  And I’m 

wondering, at the start of this year, what might be on that dashboard for you that’s giving you the 

clearest picture of the economy—including on rents—if you could touch on that. 

CHAIR POWELL.  Including? 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  Rent.  Rent costs. 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah.  Well, so we’re not—you know, it’s not the pandemic, so we 

can actually rely on more, more traditional forms.  People are working.  They’re getting wages, 

and, and the economy has largely reopened and is broadly normalizing, as you see.  So I 

wouldn’t say we’re looking at that, that sort of more innovative data as much.  You know, you 

point to rents.  So, of course, we follow the, the components of inflation very carefully.  Which 

would be:  Goods inflation—I talked about that a little bit; you mentioned housing inflation.  So 

the question is, when will these lower market rents find their way into measured rents, as 

measured, measured in PCE inflation? 

And we think that’s coming, and we know it’s coming.  It’s just a question of when and, 

and how big it’ll be.  So—but that’s in, in everyone’s forecast, I would say. So that will—that 

will help.  But at the same time, we think goods inflation will probably—it’s been giving a lot of 

disinflation to the effort—and probably that declines over time, but it may well have some, some 

Page 10 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

more time to run.  You know, these—the supply chains are not perfectly back to where they 

were.  In addition, it takes time for the, the healing process to get into prices.  So there may be 

still a tailwind.  We’ll find out with, with that.  So we look at the things that relate to our 

mandate very carefully, and—as you would imagine. 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  I guess, just as a quick follow-up—do you feel comfortable at this 

point saying the economy has reached a soft landing, or is that part of looking for more 

confidence? 

CHAIR POWELL.  No, I wouldn’t—I wouldn’t say we’ve achieved that.  And I, I think 

we have—we have a ways to go.  Inflation is still—you know, core inflation is still well above 

target on a 12-month basis.  Twelve months is our, our target, certainly.  I’m encouraged, and 

we’re encouraged by the progress.  But, you know, we’re, we’re not—we’re not declaring 

victory at all at this point.  We think we have a ways to go. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Steve. 

STEVE LIESMAN.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  You’ve said that you would know the 

neutral rate by its works.  So I’m wondering what you could tell me—how do you believe the 

neutral rate is working or telling you right now that growth is stronger?  In other words, how 

much is the economy really being restrained right now by the current funds rate?  And how much 

restraint does it really need, additionally, if inflation is still coming down? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So it’s—I think you, you do see in the interest-sensitive parts of the 

economy—you do see, for example, housing.  You see the effects.  You do.  Your, your second 

question, though, really, I think, is important, and that is, a lot of this has come through—a lot of 

the disinflationary process has come through the healing of supply chains and also of the labor 

market.  So you’ve seen the—you know, that other set of factors is really different from other 

Page 11 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

cycles and has brought that working with tighter, tighter policy, which has enabled the supply 

side to recover—I think is that, that mixture has been behind what has enabled this.  So, no—we 

really do think that we’re having an effect broadly across the economy.  I would point to the 

interest-sensitive parts of the economy as well as spending, generally.  But it’s a—it’s a joint 

story.  It’s a complicated story. 

STEVE LIESMAN.  But, but how much restraint are you actually imparting to the 

economy, would you say, relative to the neutral rate? 

CHAIR POWELL.  It’s—so I think it’s, it’s—of course, you know that it’s not something 

you can identify with any precision.  But if you—a standard approach would be to take the 

nominal rate—5.3 percent, let’s say—and subtract sort of a, a forward measure of inflation.  If 

you do that—and there are many, many ways to calculate the neutral rate—but that’s one I like 

to do.  And, you know, you’re going to get to something that is materially above mainstream 

estimates of neutrality—of the neutral rate—you will.  And—but at the same time, you look at 

the economy, and you say, “This is an economy that grew 3.1 percent last year.”  And, and you 

say, “What does that tell you about the neutral rate?”  What’s happening, though, is, the supply 

side has been recovering in the middle of this.  So that, that won’t go on forever.  So a lot of the 

growth we’re seeing is not—is—it isn’t just a tug of war between, between interest rates and 

demand.  You’re getting, you know, more activity because of the—of labor market healing and 

supply chains healing.  So I think the question is, when that peters out, I think the, the, you 

know, the, the restriction will show up probably more, more sharply. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Rich. 

RICH MILLER.  Thank you—sorry.  Thanks for taking the question, Mr. Chairman.  

You mentioned earlier we’re not seeking a weaker labor market, I think you, you said.  Can you 

Page 12 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

talk a little bit more about that?  Do you—do you think the labor market now is back to quote, 

unquote, “normal” and that the—we can achieve the inflation target without wage gains coming 

back down to what they were pre-pandemic?  Even with today’s ECI levels, they were still above 

those pre-pandemic levels. 

CHAIR POWELL.  I, I think the labor market by many measures is at or nearing 

normal—but not totally back to normal.  And you pointed to one or more of them.  So I think, 

you know, job openings are not quite back to where they were.  Wages—wage increases, rather, 

are not quite back to where they—to where they would need to be in the longer run.  I, I would 

look at it this way, though.  The, the economy is broadly normalizing, and so is the labor market.  

And that process will probably take some time.  So wage setting is something that happens—it’s, 

it’s—you know, probably will take a couple of years to get all the way back.  And that’s okay.  

That’s okay.  But we do see—you saw today’s ECI reading—you know, the evidence is that, that 

wage increases are still at a healthy level—very healthy level—but they’re gradually moving 

back to levels that would be more associated—given, given assumptions about productivity, are 

more typically associated with 2 percent inflation.  It’s, it’s an ongoing process—a healthy one—

and, and, you know, I think we’re, we’re moving in the right direction. 

RICH MILLER.  So that process can continue without a weakening of the labor market, 

basically, you’re saying? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I think the, the labor market is—it—I don’t know if I’d—it’s 

rebalancing.  Clearly, that the—there was a fairly severe imbalance between demand for workers 

and supply at the beginning of the pandemic.  So we lost several million workers at the 

beginning of the pandemic from people dropping out of the labor force.  And then when the 

economy reopened—you remember 2021—you had a severe labor shortage, and it was just—it 

Page 13 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

was everywhere—panic on the part of businesses—couldn’t, couldn’t find people.  So, what’s 

happened is—we expected labor—the labor supply—labor market to come back quickly, and it 

didn’t.  And 2022 was a disappointing year, and, you know, we were kind of thinking, “Well, 

maybe we won’t get it back.”  And then 2023, we did, as you know—so labor force participation 

came back strongly in ’23, and so did immigration.  Immigration came to a halt during the 

pandemic. 

So—and so those two forces have significantly lowered the temperature in the labor 

market to what is still a very strong labor market.  It’s still a good labor market for wages and for 

finding a job, but it’s getting back into balance, and that’s what we want to see.  And, you know, 

one great way to look at that is what’s happening with, with wage increases.  And you see it now 

across the, the major things that we—that we track.  It isn’t every quarter, but, overall, there’s a 

clear trend—still at high levels, but back down to where—what would be consistent with, with 

where we were before the pandemic and with 2 percent inflation. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Chris. 

CHRISTOPHER RUGABER.  Hi, Chris Rugaber at Associated Press.  Thank you.  I 

wanted to follow up on Rich’s question.  It sounded like you suggested that you’re not worried 

about faster growth so much—so wanted to see if you’re seeing anything that suggests that 

inflation could reaccelerate from here.  And it sounds like you’re saying you’re not worried that 

solid growth from here on out poses any risk to inflation.  Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL.  No, I think that that is a risk—the risk that inflation would, would 

reaccelerate.  I think the, the greater risk is that it would—that it would stabilize at a level 

meaningfully above 2 percent.  That’s, that’s, to me, more likely.  Of course, if—if inflation were 

to surprise by moving back up, that would—we would have to respond to that, and that would—

Page 14 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

that would be a surprise at this point.  But I have to tell you, that’s why we keep our options open 

here and why we’re not, you know, rushing.  So I, I think both of those are risks, but I think the 

more likely risk is the one that I mentioned, which is, you’ve had six good months—very good 

months—but what, what’s really going to “shake out” here?  You know, where—what will—

when we look back, what will we see?  Will, will inflation have dipped and then come back up?  

Are the last six months flattered by factors that are—that are one-off factors that won’t repeat 

themselves?  We don’t think so.  We don’t—you know, that’s not what we think, but that’s the 

question we are asking.  We have to ask [that], and we want to get comfort on that. 

CHRISTOPHER RUGABER.  And just one quick follow-up—Governor Waller had 

mentioned the revisions that are coming on February 9th for the CPI data.  Is that something 

you’re watching as well?  And if, if we see those revisions fairly minor, is that going to give you 

more confidence where things are going? 

CHAIR POWELL.  We’ll just have to see.  Yeah.  We’ll—we look at those.  Last year 

was a—was a, a surprise. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Mike. 

MICHAEL MCKEE.  Michael McKee, Bloomberg Radio and Television.  If you don’t 

want to use the term “soft landing,” would you say, at least, that, from your point of view now, 

the other scenario of a hard landing caused by the Fed is off the table or the risks have 

diminished very much?  And you mentioned below–2 percent inflation for—on a three-month 

basis, core PCE has been running at 1½ percent.  And there are those on Wall Street who think 

that if you maintain the level of restriction you have right now, you could end up with inflation 

running below your target.  How do you see that? 

Page 15 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So, how to—your first question—how to describe where we are?  So 

I guess I would just say this—executive summary would be that growth is solid to strong over 

the course of last year.  The labor market—3.7 percent unemployment indicates that the labor 

market is strong.  We’ve had just about two years now of, of unemployment under 4 percent.  

That hasn’t happened in 50 years.  So it’s a good labor market.  And we’ve seen inflation come 

down.  We’ve talked about that.  So we’ve got six months of good inflation data and an 

expectation that there’s more to come.  So this is a—this is a good situation.  Let’s be honest.  

This is a—this is a good economy. 

But what’s the outlook?  That’s looking in the rearview—the outlook—we do expect 

growth to moderate.  Of course, we have expected it for some time, and it hasn’t happened, but 

we do expect that it will moderate as supply chain and labor market normalization runs its 

course.  The labor market is rebalancing, as, as I mentioned.  Job creation has slowed.  The base 

of job growth has narrowed.  And, of course, 12-month inflation is, is above target and getting, 

you know, getting down closer to target.  It’s not guaranteed, but we do seem to be getting on 

track for that.  So those are the risks and, and questions we have to answer.  But, overall, this is a 

pretty good picture.  It, it is a good picture.  Your second question was—sorry. 

MICHAEL MCKEE.  Could you get inflation that is below target—end up with inflation 

below target, and you have to do something about that?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So we—the thing is, we’re not looking for inflation to tap the 

2 percent base once.  We’re looking for it to settle out over time at 2 percent.  And the same 

thing is true if we have a month or two of lower—and we have that now—of, of inflation that’s 

annualized at a—at a lower level—that wouldn’t be good.  We’re not—you know, we’re not 

looking to have inflation anchor below 2 percent.  We’re looking to have it anchor at 2 percent.  

Page 16 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

So if we do face those circumstances, then we’ll have to deal with that.  I think—I think as of 

now, you know, the, the question, which—we want to take advantage of this situation and finish 

the job on inflation while keeping the labor market strong. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Edward.  

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  Edward Lawrence from Fox Business.  Thank you, 

Mr. Chairman, for taking this.  So, as I’ve—as I’ve heard from some District Fed presidents, is 

it, in your view, a little premature to think that rate cuts are right around the corner?  And then 

when we do see that first rate cut, is that—should we interpret that as the beginning of a rate-cut 

cycle, or is it a one-off? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I’ll point you to that language on your first question.  We, we 

included that language in the statement to signal clearly that—with strong growth, strong labor 

market, inflation coming down—the Committee intends to move carefully as we consider when 

to begin to dial back the restrictive stance that we have in place.  So if you take that to the current 

context—current context, we’re going to be data dependent.  We’re going to be looking at this 

meeting by meeting.  Based on the meeting today, I would tell you that I don’t think it’s likely 

that the Committee will reach a level of confidence by the time of the March meeting to identify 

March as the time to do that.  But that’s, that’s to be seen.  So I wouldn’t call—you know, when 

you say—when you ask me about “in the near term,” I’m hearing that as March.  I would say I 

don’t think that’s—that’s, that’s probably not the most likely case or what we would call the base 

case.  And your second question is— 

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  On, on the—is this the start of a—when we see a cut, is it the 

start of a cutting cycle, or is it—could it just be a one-off? 

Page 17 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  You know, that’s going to depend on the data.  The whole thing is, 

this is going to depend on the data.  We’re going to be looking at the economic data as it affects 

the outlook and the balance of risks.  And we’re going to make our decisions based on that.  And 

it could wind up—you know, we’ll, we’ll have another SEP at the March meeting, and, and 

people will write down what they think.  But, in the end, it’s really going to depend on how the 

economy evolves.  We talked about, there are risks that would cause us to go slower—for 

example, stronger inflation—more, more persistent inflation.  There are risks that would cause us 

to—if they happen—that would cause us to go faster or—and sooner.  And that would be a 

weakening in the labor market or, for that matter, very, very persuasive lower inflation.  Those 

are the kinds of things.  So we’re just—we’re just going to be reacting to the data.  That’s the—

that’s really the only way we can do this. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Victoria. 

VICTORIA GUIDA.  Hi.  Victoria Guida with Politico.  Could you talk a little bit more 

about productivity growth?  You know, you’ve mentioned multiple times about, you know, the 

level of wage growth that’s consistent with 2 percent inflation.  We’ve obviously seen, you 

know—you were talking about ECI this morning, in which it’s cooled a little bit but still sort of 

above what you wanted to see.  Growth has been very strong.  How much of those numbers do 

you attribute to productivity?  And do you see that productivity as sort of just temporary because 

of the factors—the labor and supply chain factors you were talking about—or do you think that 

productivity growth will, will fade over time? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So this is a really interesting question.  And I think—my, my own 

view is—I think if you look, look back to the pandemic, you, you saw a spike in productivity as 

workers were laid off, and, and activity didn’t decline as fast.  And then you saw a deep trough 

Page 18 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

of productivity.  And then, over the last—you saw high productivity last year, in ’23.  I think 

we’re, we’re basically in the throes of getting through the pandemic economy.  And the question 

will be, what, what is it that has changed the—you know, the productivity tends to be based on, 

you know, fundamental aspects of our economy.  Is there—is there a case—will it be the case 

that we come out of this more productive on a sustained basis?  And I don’t know.  I don’t know.  

What would it take?  It would take—you know, people talk about AI, but I would—my guess is 

that we may shake out and be back where we were, because I don’t—I’m not sure I see—work 

from home doesn’t seem like it’s a big productivity increase.  Or AI, artificial intelligence—

generative it may be, but probably not in the short run—probably, maybe in the longer run.  So 

I’m not—I’m not seeing why it would, but, you know, right—you know, right now I would say 

that productivity is kind of what falls out of the, the broader forces that are driving people in and 

out of the labor force and, and activity returning and supply chains getting fixed. 

VICTORIA GUIDA.  Right.  So would that be behind why we’ve seen such strong 

growth, but we’ve also seen inflation fall—that maybe there’s just a higher level of productivity? 

CHAIR POWELL.  That’s one way to look at it.  Yeah. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nancy.  

NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Nancy Marshall-Genzer with 

Marketplace.  I want to ask a little bit more about housing.  I’m wondering—how closely are you 

watching rent and housing prices as you evaluate whether and when to cut rates?  And it seems 

like housing prices are not coming down as quickly as you expected. 

CHAIR POWELL.  So when we think about, you know—our, our statutory goals are 

maximum employment and price stability, and that’s what we’re targeting.  We’re not targeting 

housing price inflation, the cost of housing, or any of those things.  Those are very important 

Page 19 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

things for people’s lives.  But they’re not—you know, those are not the things we’re targeting.  

We’re also well aware that when we cut rates at the beginning of the pandemic, for example, the 

housing, housing industry was helped more than any other industry.  And when we raise rates, 

the housing industry can be hurt, because it’s a very interest-sensitive sector. 

On top of that, we have longer-run problems with the availability of housing.  You know, 

we have a, a built-up set of cities, and, and, you know, people are moving further and further out.  

So there’s—there hasn’t been enough housing built.  And these are not—these are not things that 

we have any tools to address.  But, you know, where it comes into play very specifically in our 

work is inflation, which is a combination.  It’s, it’s really rental inflation.  You’re taking owners’ 

equivalent rent and then actual rent paid by tenants.  And you’re, you’re running that through the 

CPI calculation.  Or the PCE [inflation] calculation—the one we look at.  And what that’s telling 

you is that market rents are increasing at a much lower rate or even being flat and that that will 

show up in inflation over time.  It has to as long as that remains the case. 

NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER.   And just real quick—what is your response to the 

letter that was sent to you by some members of Congress asking the Fed to lower interest rates to 

make housing more affordable? 

CHAIR POWELL.  My response is what I started with, which is that our, our job—the 

job Congress has given us is price stability and maximum employment.  Price stability is 

absolutely essential for people’s lives, most importantly for—well, not most importantly—most, 

mostly for people at the lower end of the income spectrum who are living at the edges—at the 

margins.  And so someone—for someone like that, high inflation in the—in the necessities of 

life—right away, you’re in trouble, whereas even middle-class people have some, you know, 

some scope to absorb higher costs.  So we have to get—it’s our job.  It’s what society has asked 

Page 20 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

us to do, is to get inflation down, and the tools that we use to do it are interest rates.  So that’s 

how we think about that. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Courtenay. 

COURTENAY BROWN.  Courtenay Brown from Axios.  Can you give us some insight 

into whether the Committee discussed the possibility of slowing balance sheet runoff in the 

months ahead? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yes.  So I would start by saying that balance sheet runoff so far has 

gone very well.  And as the process has continued, you know, we’re getting to that time where 

questions are beginning to come into greater focus about the pace of runoff and all that.  So at 

this meeting, we did have some discussion of the balance sheet, and we’re planning to begin in-

depth discussions of balance sheet issues at our next meeting in March.  So those, those 

questions are all coming into scope now, and we’re focusing on them.  But we’re, we’re at the 

beginning of that process, I would say. 

COURTENAY BROWN.  Quick follow-up—is it the case that the Fed would decide to 

lower rates and make adjustments to the balance sheet runoff in tandem? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yes, we do—we see those as independent tools.  And so they 

don’t—for example, if you’re—if you’re normalizing policy, you might be reducing rates but 

continuing to run off the balance sheet.  In both cases, that’s normalization, but from a strict 

monetary policy standpoint, you could say we’re loosening along with tightening.  So that, that 

could happen.  It’s not something we’re planning or thinking about, but right now, we’re 

thinking about getting to a place where—we’re going to see the balance sheet runoff to continue.  

We’re watching it carefully, and, as I said, we’ll—we’ll be looking into that as a Committee 

starting in March.  

Page 21 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

COURTENAY BROWN.  Thanks. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Simon. 

SIMON RABINOVITCH.  Simon Rabinovitch with the Economist.  Thank you, Chair 

Powell.  You’ve mentioned six good months of inflation data, but that not being enough to build 

up confidence.  Based on your previous response that your base case is you probably wouldn’t 

start easing yet in March, the implication is that eight good months might not be enough, either.  

Roughly how many months do you think you might need of, of good inflation data to be—to be 

confident? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I’m, I’m not in a position to put a number on it.  I’m just going to 

say—and it’s not that we don’t have any confidence.  We, we have growing confidence, but not 

to the point where we—where we feel like—it’s a highly consequential decision to start the 

process of, of dialing back on restriction.  And we want to get that right, and we feel like the 

strong economy, strong labor market, inflation coming down—it gives us the ability to do that.  

We think that’s the best way we can serve the public, because, ultimately, we, we’ve made a lot 

of progress on inflation.  We just want to make sure that we do get the job done in a sustainable 

way.  That’s how we’re thinking about it.  In terms of when that’ll be, you know, that, that’ll all 

come out of our communications, and, you know, we won’t—we won’t keep that a secret. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Evan. 

EVAN RYSER.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Evan Ryser with MNI Market News.  Can you 

explain a little bit more on what you’re considering when tapering QT?  Do you need to see the 

overnight reverse repo facility all the way down to zero, or is it something that you can start with 

a couple hundred billion dollars there? 

Page 22 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  Not a decision that we’ve made, but I, I wouldn’t think we’d, we’d 

be—we wouldn’t be taking a position that it’s got to go to zero.  I mean, if it—if it were to 

stabilize at a different level—but that’s, that’s not a decision that we’ve made.  That’s, that’s 

what we’ll be talking about at the March meeting.  A whole range of issues will be briefed up, 

and the Committee will get into—get into all of the issues that will be arising over the course of 

the next, let’s say, year or so. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Greg. 

GREG ROBB.  Thanks.  Greg Robb from MarketWatch.  Chair Powell, I want to change 

gears a little bit.  In the presidential primary campaign that’s been going on for the last nine 

months or so, your name has come up often, and many Republican candidates had said that they 

probably wouldn’t want to give you a third term.  So I wanted to give you a chance to talk about 

that.  Do you want another term—you’ve had—on the Fed?  What, what’s your stance on that? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I don’t have a stance on that.  It’s not something I’m focused on.  

[We’re] focused on doing our jobs.  We have—this year is going to be a highly consequential 

year for, for the Fed and for monetary policy.  And we’re, all of us, very buckled down, focused 

on doing our jobs. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jennifer. 

JENNIFER SCHONBERGER.  Thank you, Chair Powell.  Jennifer Schonberger with 

Yahoo Finance.  As you mentioned, core PCE [inflation] has been running at 1.9 percent over 

the past six months.  And you guys are actually expecting core inflation higher this year, at 2.4 

percent, compared to that six-month measure.  Given that forecast and that the median is for 

three rate cuts this year, what happens if inflation stays where it’s been over the last six months 

for the next six months? 

Page 23 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I—you know, we’re going to do—we’ll update our, our inflation 

forecasts at the next meeting.  You referred to the December meeting.  That’s, that’s, you know, 

three months old [by March], so it might be lower now, given the data we’ve gotten.  So, look, as 

I mentioned, we’re going to be reacting to the data.  If, if we get—if we get very strong inflation 

data and it, it kicks back up, then it’ll—then we’ll go slower or later or both.  If we got really 

good inflation data soon, that would matter for both the—that, that would tell us that, that we 

could go sooner and perhaps go faster.  So we’re just going to be—but, of course, we’ll weigh 

that with all the other factors.  We’re setting policy based on the totality of, of the data. 

JENNIFER SCHONBERGER.  But just to follow—if inflation stays where it is currently, 

that would probably mean that the real interest rate becomes more restrictive.  Would that mean 

you’d have to trim more, perhaps, than you already have factored in? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, I think if we—if we came to the view that, that inflation 

were—that the six-month inflation numbers, which are very close to 2 [percent], were, in “PCE 

world”—if we came to—if that’s—if we thought that is really where we’re going to be, then, 

yes, our policy would be in a different place.  It would.  But, you know, that’s the whole point is, 

we’re trying to get comfortable and gain confidence that that is where—that inflation is on a 

sustainable path down to 2 percent or toward 2 percent. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Daniel. 

DANIEL AVIS.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Daniel Avis, Agence France-Presse.  I just wondered 

if I could get your comment on the recent consumer confidence data.  It seems to suggest that 

consumers are sort of moving towards a much more optimistic view of the economy.  I just 

wonder—is it fair to say that they’re moving towards where the Fed appears to have been in 

Page 24 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

recent months?  And, you know, do you think that inflation and falling inflation perhaps has 

played a role in that?  And what challenges do you see, going forward?  Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah, so it’s been—it’s been interesting that confidence surveys 

have been weak, at a time when unemployment has been low—very low, historically low—for a 

couple of years.  And—but, nonetheless, that’s been the case.  And we’ve asked ourselves why 

that is.  And, you know, one obvious answer—we don’t pretend to have perfect wisdom on 

this—is—but one obvious answer is that the price level is high.  So prices went up much more 

than 2 percent for year—per year for a couple of years.  And people are going to the store, and 

they’re paying much more for the basics of life than they were two years ago—three years ago.  

And they’re not happy about it.  And it’s fine that inflation is coming down, but the price—the 

prices they’re paying are still high. 

So that, that is what—that, that has to be some part of why people are unhappy.  And 

they’re, they’re right to be unhappy.  You know, this is why we need to keep price stability.  It’s 

why we need to do our jobs—so that people don’t have to deal with things like this. 

In terms of [surveys]—you’re right.  In, in recent, recent surveys, a couple of—you’ve 

seen a couple of significant increases in, in consumer confidence or, or happiness with the 

economy.  I guess that’s a good thing.  That can—that can support spending—can support 

economic activity.  There’s some evidence of that.  But it is—it is a fact that we have seen, you 

know, a meaningful increase.  I think levels of confidence are still maybe not as high as they’ve 

been at various times.  But it’s—they certainly have come up. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Bryan. 

BRYAN MENA.  Thank you for taking our questions.  Bryan Mena, CNN Business.  

Committee members have said they’d like to meet with business leaders and stakeholders in 

Page 25 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

person to learn more about the economy in real time, given that some data is subject to large 

revisions, the issue of seasonal adjustments being thrown off balance, and many readings of the 

economy being quarterly.  So did any members say they’ve learned anything not reflected in the 

data?  Or have you yourself learned anything through anecdotal evidence that hasn’t been 

captured in the data yet? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, yes.  I’m, I’m a big believer that—yes.  So we, we do meet 

with outside groups who come from all different parts of the economy.  And I always feel like 

you—I mean, I spent most of my life in the private sector looking at companies—individual 

companies—individual management teams—and then building out from that. And so, starting 

with GDP data is—and working into what’s actually affecting people’s lives is—is challenging.  

It’s very hard.  So I, I really like anecdotal data.  In addition, as you know, the 12 Reserve Banks 

have really the best network of anyone.  In all their Districts, they’re talking to, you know, not 

just the business community, but the educational, medical, all, all—you know, nonprofit 

community.  They have arms into all of that.  And so when they come back—that’s what goes 

into the Beige Book.  But they come back, and what each Reserve Bank president does is, during 

the outlook go-around, they’ll say, “In my District . . .”  And they’ll talk about 100 conversations 

they—not—they won’t talk—they, they will give you input, based on 100 conversations that 

they’ve had with people of all different walks.  And it’s—I personally find it very helpful in 

understanding what’s going on.  And also, I think you hear things before they show up in the 

data sometimes. 

BRYAN MENA.  Did any of them—did any of them notice slowing economy based on 

what they’ve heard from, like, their District? 

Page 26 of 27 

 
 
 
 
January 31, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yes.  I mean, if you—if you look back at the last—not this Beige 

Book, but the one before, it was more—there was a lot of “slower activity.”  I think that, that 

what you’re hearing now is, is, things are picking up a bit.  You’re hearing—not, not in every 

District and not every, every person that we talk to, but you’re—overall, it feels like you’re 

hearing things picking up at the margin.  So that’s what comes through. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Let’s go to Jeff Cox for the last question. 

JEFF COX.  Thank you, sir.  Jeff Cox from CNBC.com.  Just kind of looking to put it all 

together:  You talked about basically the, the economy looking strong with 3.3 percent 

annualized growth in the fourth quarter.  Does the strength of the economy speak more loudly to 

you now than any inflation threat might?  That, you know—you’re in a position, in other words, 

to keep rates elevated as long as the economy stays strong, and you’re more—you’re more tilted 

towards that.  And also, perhaps, are you worried at all that the economy is maybe a little too 

strong right now and that inflation could come back at some point? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I’m not so worried about that.  You know, it’s—again, we’ve had 

inflation come down without a slow economy and without, you know, important increases in, in 

unemployment, and there’s no reason why we should want to get in the way of that process, if 

it’s going to continue.  So I, I am—you know, I think—I think declining inflation—continued 

declines in inflation are, are really the main thing we’re looking at.  Of course, we want the labor 

market to remain strong, too. 

We don’t have a growth mandate.  We’ve got a, a maximum-employment mandate and a, 

a price-stability mandate, and those are the two things we look at.  Growth only matters to the 

extent it influences our achievement of those two—of those two mandates. 

Thank you very much. 

Page 27 of 27