SOURCE: https://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/files/FOMCpresconf20241107.pdf

November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

Transcript of Chair Powell’s Press Conference 
November 7, 2024 

CHAIR POWELL.  Good afternoon.  My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on 

achieving our dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of 

the American people.  The economy is strong overall and has made significant progress toward 

our goals over the past two years.  The labor market has cooled from its formerly overheated 

state and remains solid.  Inflation has eased substantially from a peak of 7 percent to 2.1 percent 

as of September.  We are committed to maintaining our economy’s strength by supporting 

maximum employment and returning inflation to our 2 percent goal.  

Today, the FOMC decided to take another step in reducing the degree of policy restraint 

by lowering our policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point.  We continue to be confident that, 

with an appropriate recalibration of our policy stance, strength in the economy and the labor 

market can be maintained, with inflation moving sustainably down to 2 percent.  We also 

decided to continue to reduce our securities holdings.  I’ll have more to say about monetary 

policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. 

Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has continued to expand at a solid pace.  

GDP rose at an annual rate of 2.8 percent in the third quarter, about the same pace as in the 

second quarter.  Growth of consumer spending has remained resilient, and investment in 

equipment and intangibles has strengthened.  In contrast, activity in the housing sector has been 

weak.  Overall, improving supply conditions have supported the strong performance of the U.S. 

economy over the past year.  

In the labor market, conditions remain solid.  Payroll job gains have slowed from earlier 

in the year, averaging 104,000 per month over the past three months.  This figure would have 

been somewhat higher were it not for the effects of labor strikes and hurricanes on employment 

Page 1 of 23 

 
 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

in October.  Regarding the hurricanes, let me extend our sympathies to all the families, 

businesses, and communities who have been harm—harmed by these devastating storms.   

The unemployment rate is notably higher than it was a year ago but has edged down over 

the past three months and remains low at 4.1 percent in October.  Nominal wage growth has 

eased over the past year, and the jobs-to-workers gap has narrowed.  Overall, a broad set of 

indicators suggests that conditions in the labor market are now less tight than just before the 

pandemic in 2019.  The labor market is not a source of significant inflationary pressures.  

Inflation has eased significantly over the past two years.  Total PCE prices rose 

2.1 percent over the 12 months ending in September; excluding the volatile food and energy 

categories, core PCE prices rose 2.7 percent.  Overall, inflation has moved much closer to our 

2 percent longer-run goal, but core inflation remains somewhat elevated.  Longer-term inflation 

expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of 

households, businesses, and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets.  

Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum 

employment and stable prices for the American people.  We see the risks to achieving our 

employment and inflation goals as being roughly in balance, and we’re attentive to the risks to 

both sides of our mandate.  At today’s meeting, the Committee decided to lower the target range 

for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, to 4½ percent to 4¾ percent.  This further 

recalibration of our policy stance will help maintain the strength of the economy and the labor 

market and will continue to enable further progress on inflation as we move toward a more 

neutral stance over time.    

We know that reducing policy strain—restraint too quickly could hinder progress on 

inflation.  At the same time, reducing policy restraint too slowly could unduly weaken economic 

Page 2 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

activity and employment.  In considering additional adjustments to the target range for the 

federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and 

the balance of risks.  We are not on any preset course.  We will continue to make our decisions 

meeting by meeting.  

As the economy evolves, monetary policy will adjust in order to best promote our 

maximum-employment and price-stability goals.  If the economy remains strong and inflation is 

not sustainably moving toward 2 percent, we can dial back policy restraint more slowly.  If the 

labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than 

anticipated, we can move more quickly.  Policy is well positioned to deal with the risks and 

uncertainties that we face in pursuing both sides of our dual mandate.  

The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy—maximum employment and 

stable prices.  We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation 

sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored.  

Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans.  We understand that our 

affect—actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country.  Everything we 

do is in service to our public mission.  We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our 

maximum-employment and price-stability goals.  Thank you.  I look forward to our discussion. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Colby. 

COLBY SMITH.  Thank you.  Given the expectation that the election outcome will 

produce policies that would meaningfully impact the U.S. economy next year, how is the 

Committee taking these proposals into account for upcoming decisions, including potentially the 

next one in December?  And, and can you give us any more sense of how proactive or reactive 

the Fed is prepared to be to changes in economic policies with the next Administration?  

Page 3 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  Sure.  So let me say that in the near term, the election will have no 

effects on our policy decisions.  As you know, many, many things affect the economy, and 

anyone who writes down forecasts in their job will tell you that the economy is quite difficult to 

forecast, looking out past the very near term.  Here, we don’t know what the timing and 

substance of any policy changes will be.  We therefore don’t know what the effects on the 

economy would be—specifically, whether and to what extent those policies would matter for the 

achievement of our goal variables:  maximum employment and price stability.  We don’t—we 

don’t guess, we don’t speculate, and we don’t assume.  Now, just in principle, it’s possible that 

any Administration’s policies or, or policies put in place by Congress could have economic 

effects over time—over time that would matter for our pursuit of our dual-mandate goals.  So, 

we—along with countless other factors, forecasts of those economic effects would be included in 

our models of the economy and would be taken into account through that channel.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nick. 

NICK TIMIRAOS.  Chair Powell, Nick Timiraos from the Wall Street Journal.  Roughly 

one year ago when the 10-year Treasury was flirting with 5 percent and 30-year mortgage rates 

were near 8 percent, you noted how higher borrowing costs, if they were sustained, could weigh 

on economic activity.  Given that you’ve said you believe policy is restrictive and the Fed is now 

dialing back that restriction, are the growth risks presented by higher U.S. Treasury yields today 

any different from those you identified one year ago when inflation was still meaningfully above 

your target?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So I would just say this.  We’ve watched the, the run-up in bond 

rates, and it’s, it’s nowhere where it was, of course, a year ago.  I guess that, you know, the long-

Page 4 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

run rates are well below that level.  So we’re watching that.  Things have been moving around, 

and we’ll see where they settle.  I think it’s too early to really say where they settle.   

Ultimately, I’m sure we’ve all read these decompositions of what, you know—and I 

certainly have, but it’s not really our job to provide our specific decomposition.  I will say, 

though, that it appears that the moves are not, not principally about higher inflation expectations.  

They’re really about a sense of more likely to have stronger growth and perhaps less in the way 

of downside risks.  So that’s what they’re about.   

You know, we do take financial conditions into account.  If they—if they’re persistent 

and if they’re material, then we’ll certainly take them into account in our policy.  But I would say 

we’re not at—we’re not at that stage right now.  It’s just something that we’re watching.  And, 

again, these things don’t really have mainly to do with, with Fed policy, but to do with other 

factors in the economy.  

NICK TIMIRAOS.  If I could follow up—is the September SEP—are those rate 

projections still valid?  Do they still seem relevant given where we are now?  

CHAIR POWELL.  You know what?  It’s—you get halfway through the cycle between 

the last set and the next set.  I, I wouldn’t want to comment one way or the other.  You know, 

people are—let’s talk about the data we’ve gotten since the last meeting.   

So, in the main, the economic activity data have been stronger than expected.  The NIPA 

revision was stronger.  Certainly, the September employment report was stronger; the October 

report, not stronger; retail sales, stronger.  So, overall, though, I think you take away a sense of, 

of some of the downside risks to economic activity having, having been diminished, with the 

NIPA revisions in particular, and so, overall, feeling, feeling good about economic activity.  So I 

think we would factor that in.   

Page 5 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

At the same time, we got one inflation report, which was—it wasn’t terrible, but it was—

it was a little higher than expected.  So I think, really, the question is, is December.  And, you 

know, by December we’ll have—we’ll have more data:  I guess one more employment report, 

two more inflation reports, and lots of other data, and, you know, we’ll make a decision as we 

get to December.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jeanna. 

JEANNA SMIALEK.  Jeanna Smialek from the New York Times.  Thanks for taking our 

questions, Chair Powell.  When it comes to December, what will you be looking at specifically 

as you try to make that decision?  And then, as of the Fed’s economic projections in September, 

you, you had written down four quarter-point interest rate cuts in 2025.  Do you still think that 

those are likely?  Is that sort of the baseline outlook at this point, or has that shifted?  And if it 

shifted at all, can you—can you give a little bit of, of detail as to why?  

CHAIR POWELL.  You know, I can’t.  We don’t fill out a—we don’t fill out an SEP, 

and I can’t characterize one that wasn’t filled out today.  So I can’t really speak for kind of 

exactly where the—where the Committee is.  I would just say, for December, we’re going to 

be—again, in every meeting—we’re going to be looking at the incoming data and how that 

affects the outlook.   

As you know, we’re in the process of recalibrating from a fairly restrictive level at 

5.33 percent.  After today’s move, we’re down 75 basis points.  And we’re, we’re asking 

ourselves, “Is that where we need to be?”  You know that we’re, we’re trying to steer between 

the risk of moving too quickly and perhaps undermining our progress on inflation or moving too 

slowly and allowing the labor market to weaken too much.  We’re trying to, to be on a middle 

path where we can maintain the strength in the labor market while also enabling further progress 

Page 6 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

on inflation.  We think that’s where we are, but that’s the question we’re going to be asking in 

September and, and in other meetings.  And, again, I can’t really update you on the Committee’s 

thinking, because we don’t fill out an SEP at this meeting.  

JEANNA SMIALEK.  Yes, total—totally appreciate that.  I guess when it comes to your 

own thinking, do you think that that—a full percentage point of rate cuts in 2025—is a 

reasonable outlook? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Again, I’m going to wait—we’re going to wait and see how things 

come in in December.  I mean, I—it’s just—I would put it this way:  We’re on a path to a more 

neutral stance.  And, and that’s very much what we’re on.  That has not changed at all since 

September.  And, you know, we’re just going to have to see where the—where the data lead us.  

We have, you know, a whole six weeks of data to look at to make that decision in December.  

Obviously, I’m not ruling it out or in, but, but, you know, I would say—you know, I would say 

that, you know, again, we didn’t update the SEP, so I’m not going to characterize, you know, 

where the Committee would be.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Howard.  

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Thanks.  Howard Schneider with Reuters.  I wondered if you 

could please elaborate and explain a little bit the two changes in the language of the statement 

here in the first paragraph when you say, “Inflation has made progress,” dropping the word 

“further progress,” and in the second paragraph dropping the sentence that the Committee had 

“gained greater confidence” that inflation was progressing towards its 2 percent goal.  Is there 

any policy substance behind either of those changes in language?  Is it—is it meant to open the 

door to a December pause?  Is it meant to communicate anything about the stickiness of core 

inflation in the last three months?  

Page 7 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  Not really, no.  So let me tell you what we were thinking.  So the test 

of gaining further confidence was a—was our test for the first rate cut, right?  And so we, we met 

that test in September, and therefore we take that test out.  If you leave it in, then it’s new 

forward guidance.  It’s brand new forward guidance.  “What do you mean by it?  Are you—are 

you making—are you requiring yet further guidance?”  We have to say “yes” or “no” at every 

meeting whether we’ve made further progress.   

The point is we have gained confidence that, that we’re on a sustainable path down to 

2 percent.  So that, I would tell you, is, is what that’s really all about.  And it’s not meant to send 

a signal.  Neither of those is meant to send a further signal.  And, you know, saying “further 

progress” it becomes a test where we don’t want to be—we don’t think it’s a good time to be 

doing a lot of, of forward guidance.   

You know, we’re—there’s a fair amount of uncertainty in that—in what I’ve said.  The 

path that we’re on, we do know what—where the destination is, but we don’t know the right 

pace, and we don’t know exactly where the destination is.  So the—the—the point is to find that, 

to find the right pace and the right destination as we go.  And I think there’s a fair amount of 

uncertainty about that, and, you know, you don’t want to tie yourself up with, with guidance.  

You want to be able to make sensible decisions as you go.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Steve.  

STEVE LIESMAN.  Steve Liesman, CNBC.  Mr. Chairman, you talked about higher 

rates, perhaps from an expectation of higher growth.  You didn’t talk about it in terms of 

expectations of higher deficits.  Is that something you think might be behind the recent rise in 

interest rates, and is that—are rising deficits a concern to you?  

Page 8 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So we don’t comment on fiscal policy, and, again, I don’t have a lot 

more to say on, on what’s driving bond yields.  In terms of, of policy changes, though, let me 

give you a sense of how this, this works in the ordinary case.  Let’s say Congress is considering a 

rewrite of the tax laws; it doesn’t matter what’s in the content.  So we would follow that.  At a 

certain point, we’d, we’d think we see the outline, so we’d start to model it.  And then we’d wait, 

and we’d wait, and, at a certain point, the staff would brief the FOMC and say, you know, “This 

is—these are the likely effects.”  There’s lots and lots of literature on the effects of tax policy 

changes on various parts of the economy.  So we’d, we’d try to get smart on that.  And then the 

law actually passes, and, you know, you’d start to put it—you’d probably run an alternative 

simulation before that happens, just to keep people trying to understand it.  Then, then when it 

actually passes, it goes into the model, along with a million other things.   

So, you know, these—we have a very large economy.  Many things are affecting it at any 

given time.  And, you know, a law change of some kind would go in there, but—it would go in, 

but it would—you know, it’s a process that takes some time.  Clearly, the legislative process 

takes a lot of time.  And, of course, the real question is not the effect of that law.  It’s all of the 

policy changes that are happening.  What’s the net effect and, you know, the overall effect on the 

economy at any given time?  So I think that’s a—that’s a process that takes a lot of time and that 

we go through all the time with every Administration, constantly.  And I just—this will be no 

different.  But, you know, right now, we’re—there’s nothing to—there’s nothing to model right 

now.  It’s such an early stage.  We don’t know what the policies are, and once we know what 

they are, we won’t—we won’t have a sense of, you know, when they’ll be implemented or, or all 

those sorts of things.  So I think I would just say—  

STEVE LIESMAN.  Mm-hmm.  

Page 9 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  —we’re not doing that now, and all that will take time, and it will be 

very much regular order when we do do that. 

STEVE LIESMAN.  If I could just follow up on Nick’s question—are the current rates 

something you feel like you need to lean against, in that they go against the direction of policy 

by being—adding restriction to the economy?  Or do you just take them as a given or perhaps a 

signal that you should do less?  

CHAIR POWELL.  I—look, I just think—the first question is, how long will they be 

sustained?  If you remember the 5 percent 10-year, people were drawing massively important 

conclusions only to find, you know, three weeks later that the 10-year was 50 basis points lower.  

So, you know, it’s material changes and financial conditions that last, that are persistent, that 

really matter.  And we don’t know that about these.  What we’ve seen so far?  You know, we’re 

watching it.  We’re reading.  You know, we’re doing the decompositions and reading others, but 

right now it’s not a major factor in, in how we’re thinking about things.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Chris.  

CHRISTOPHER RUGABER.  Thank you.  Chris Rugaber at Associated Press.  You 

mentioned the positive economic data that we’ve seen since the September meeting, including 

the revisions to things like savings, higher GDP growth.  We saw a stock market jump yesterday.  

That’s renewed some of the questions about why, why do many cuts at all in this—with this 

backdrop?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So you’re right.  As I mentioned, and as you mentioned, the latest 

economic data have been strong, and that’s, of course, a great thing and highly welcome.  But, of 

course, our mandate is maximum for employment and price stability, and we think that even with 

today’s cut, policy is still restrictive.  We understand it’s not possible to say precisely how 

Page 10 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

restrictive, but we feel that it is still restrictive.  And if you look at our goal variables, the labor 

market has cooled a great deal from its overheated state of two years ago and is now essentially 

in balance.  It is continuing to cool, albeit at a—at a modest rate, and we don’t need further 

cooling, we don’t think, to achieve our inflation mandate.  So that’s the labor market.  

Inflation has moved down a great deal from its higher—its highs of two years ago, and 

we judged, as I mentioned, that it’s on a sustainable path back to 2 percent.  So the job’s not 

done on inflation.  But if you look at those two things, we judged in September that it was 

appropriate to begin to recalibrate our policy stance to reflect this progress, and today’s decision 

is really another step in that process.  Overall, as I mentioned, we believe that with an 

appropriate recalibration of our policy stance, we can maintain strength in the labor market even 

as our policy stance enables further progress toward our inflation goal.  

CHRISTOPHER RUGABER.  Great.  And just to follow up, could you—what might 

cause you to pause rate cuts in December?  What kind of economic data would lead you to that 

path?  Thank you.  

CHAIR POWELL.  So we haven’t, you know, made any decision like that at all.  But 

we’re—so we’re in the process, as I mentioned, of moving policy down—our stance down over 

time to a more neutral level.  And, as a general matter, as we move ahead, we are prepared to 

adjust our assessments of the appropriate pace and destination as the outlook evolves.  So, for 

example, if we were to see the labor market deteriorating, we’d be prepared to move more 

quickly.  Alternatively, as we approach levels that are plausibly neutral or close to neutral, it may 

turn out to be appropriate to slow the pace at which we’re dialing back restriction.   

Again, haven’t made any decisions about that, but that’s certainly a possibility.  If you—

you can think of it as similar to what we do with asset purchase—with asset runoff with QT.  So 

Page 11 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

we reach a point where we slow the pace, much like an airplane reaching the airport slows down.  

And so, you know, it—we’re thinking about it that way, but it’s, it’s something that we’re just 

beginning to think about.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Edward.  

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  Thanks, Chair Powell.  So with, with this noise in the jobs 

reports that we’ve seen and you look at the Fed’s favorite inflation, PCE inflation, overall it’s 

2.1 percent—very close to the Fed’s target—but core inflation is 2.7 percent, and it’s been that 

way since July.  So why doesn’t this data give fuel to a rate pause for this meeting?  

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, so I think if you look at the 3- and 6-month—you’re quoting 

the 12-month.  

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  Yes.  

CHAIR POWELL.  So we look at all of them, right?   

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  Yes.   

CHAIR POWELL.  But if you look at three- and six-month core PCE, you’ll see they’re 

around 2.3 percent.  So we look at all of them.  And we look at—we also—we look at 12 as well.  

But what it’s telling us is that we really have made significant progress.  And we expect there to 

be bumps.  For example, you know, the, the last three months of last year, the core PCE readings 

were very, very low—probably unsustainably low.  So that’s why you see—that’s why forecasts 

generally see a couple of upticks toward the end of the year.  On the other hand, the January 

reading certainly looks like an example of residual seasonality, so that we saw last year.  So 

when that falls out of the 12-month calculation in February, we should see it staying down.  So 

there will literally be a bump up and then down.  We understand that.   

Page 12 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

Overall, you see the progress on inflation, and you also look at the economy, and you say, 

“What’s—what is the inflation story now?  Where is it coming from?”  So I point to a couple of 

things.  One is the nonhousing services and goods, which together make up 80 percent of that—

of the core PCE index, are back to the levels they were at the last time we had sustained 

2 percent inflation, which happens to be in the early 2000s for a period of five, six, seven years.  

So they’re back at that level.  What’s not is housing services.  

So let’s talk about housing services.  Housing services is higher.  What’s going on there 

is, you know, market rents, newly signed leases, are experiencing very low inflation.  And what’s 

happening is older, you know, leases that are turning over are taking several years to catch up to 

where market, market leases are—market rent leases are.  So that’s just a catch-up problem.  It’s 

not really reflecting current inflationary pressures; it’s reflecting past inflationary pressures.  So 

that’s, that’s one thing.   

The other thing is, I’d say look at the labor market—not a source of inflationary 

pressures.  Where is it coming from?  It’s not a very tight economy.  What is the story about 

inflation?  You see that catch-up inflation also in insurance and in several other areas.  So you’re 

seeing—we’re not, not declaring victory, obviously, but we feel like the story is very consistent 

with inflation continuing to come down on a bumpy path over the next couple of years and 

settling around 2 percent.  That story is intact, and it won’t be one or two really good data 

months, or bad data months aren’t going to really change the pattern at this point, now that we’re 

this far into the process.  

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  So you’re quickly trying to get to that neutral rate that you 

see, or do you foresee that you have some time to get there?  

Page 13 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  Nothing in the economic data suggests that the Committee has any 

need to be in a hurry to get there.  We are seeing strong economic activity.  We are seeing 

ongoing strength in the labor market; we’re watching that carefully, but we do see maintaining 

strength there.  And so we think that the right way—the right way to find neutral, if you will, is 

carefully, patiently.  Again, that’s not meant to have a specific meaning other than we—to the 

extent—to the extent the economy remains strong, we have the ability to, to take advantage of 

that as we try to navigate that middle path between the two risks.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Craig. 

CRAIG TORRES.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Craig Torres from Bloomberg.  Two questions 

today.  Did you learn anything about what Americans think about the economy from the election 

results?  First question.  Second question—I want to talk about some labor market indicators, and 

I do so with great respect for your attentiveness to the maximum-employment side of the 

mandate, Chair Powell.  

So the unemployment rate has been at 4 percent or higher for six months.  One of the 

broadest measures of unemployment is up about a half a point from a year ago.  Compensation 

gains are sliding back.  The quits rate, a signal of labor market dynamism, has been heading 

down to that bad neighborhood of the 20-teens.  So you have put a marker at Jackson Hole 

saying any “further cooling” is unwelcome.  It is cooling, generally, a little bit further.  So at 

what point do we reach what you would describe as a shortfall from maximum employment?  

Thank you.  

CHAIR POWELL.  Sure.  So on your first question, I’m not going to talk about anything 

that relates directly or indirectly to the election.  On the second one, you’re—you know, this is 

the great question, and it’s the one we think about all the time.  So I’ll just say a couple things.   

Page 14 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

You know, there’s nothing really surprising here.  What we know is that the 

unemployment rate is low.  We also know that it’s come down significantly—sorry, moved up 

significantly from a year or so ago.  So we’ve seen a big change upward in unemployment.  

Sometimes that has meant bad things.  So far, it doesn’t appear to be.  It appears that the—I 

wouldn’t say that the labor market has fully stabilized, because I do think it’s continuing to very 

gradually cool, but it seems to be in a good place.  And our policy, of course, is designed to keep 

it in that good place, to maintain the strength in the labor market, while also enabling further 

progress on inflation.   

You know, you mentioned a bunch of, of indicators, and you’re right.  You know, the, the 

openings to unemployment rate is back to a normal level.  I would—I would characterize it more 

broadly as “normalizing.”  You mentioned wages.  Wages are still running just a bit above where 

they would need to be to be consistent with 2 percent inflation, unless productivity is going to 

remain at this high level.  If we see the—if we see productivity, you know, more sustainably at 

these high levels, then that would sustain higher wage gains.  So I would say—in fact, you can 

say it the other way, that, that wage increases are now consistent with 2 percent inflation given 

current productivity readings.   

But, of course, you know, the lore on productivity readings is whenever you see high 

readings, you should assume they’re going to revert pretty quickly to the longer-term trend.  That 

has always been the case for 50 years.  But, you know, it may be that—we’re now five years.  If 

you look at the NIPA revisions that came out a month ago, we’re five years into, into a nice set 

of productivity readings, which are sustained and very healthy.  But, overall, it’s a good labor 

market.  We could talk about 20 different data series.  We’ll be looking at all of them, of course.  

Page 15 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

But, you know, we don’t want the labor market to, to soften much from here.  We don’t think we 

need that to happen to get inflation back to 2 percent. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Victoria. 

VICTORIA GUIDA.  Hi.  Victoria Guida with Politico.  Some of the President-elect’s 

advisers have suggested that you should resign.  If he asked you to leave, would you go?  

CHAIR POWELL.  No.  

VICTORIA GUIDA.  Can you follow up on is—do you think that legally that you’re not 

required to leave?  

CHAIR POWELL.  No.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Mike.  

MICHAEL MCKEE.  Michael McKee from Bloomberg Radio and Television.  You talk 

a lot about what the data are telling you and how you are dependent on the data.  But in terms of 

forward-looking assessments of the economy, what are you hearing from CEOs or other officials 

around the country?  What did you hear today from the regional Bank presidents about what 

companies and consumers think about where the economy is going from here, rather than 

looking backwards?  And does that match up with what your forecasts have been and what you 

think the appropriate policy path should be?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So it’s hard to characterize a, you know, really interesting set of 

discussions we had, and, of course, you’ll see them in the minutes in three weeks.  But I would 

say this.  I think, you know, the comments from our Reserve Bank colleagues and from the 

CEOs that they talk to are pretty constructive on the economy right now—pretty constructive, 

feeling that the labor market is, is, you know, back to normal to the point where it’s no longer 

Page 16 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

that much of a discussion topic in their world, whereas two years ago, it was all they were talking 

about.  So they feel like the labor market’s in balance.  

People feel good about where the economy is.  Demand is obviously pretty strong.  And, 

you know, you’re seeing, what, 2.8 percent growth in the third quarter estimated.  Maybe the 

year is 2½.  This is—this is—you know, this is a strong economy.  It’s actually remarkable how 

well the U.S. economy has been performing with, you know, strong growth, a strong labor 

market, inflation coming down.  We’re, you know, really performing better than any of our 

global peers.  And I think that is reflected in what you hear from—what I hear people hear from 

CEOs.  I don’t get to talk to a lot of CEOs in my job, but I hear what others summarize from 

those.  And, of course, I hear the Reserve Bank presidents do a lot of that, and it’s pretty 

constructive overall.  Now, that’s not to say—there are areas of caution and things like that but, 

ultimately, overall pretty positive.  

MICHAEL MCKEE.  To follow up on the areas of caution, if there were black clouds on 

the horizon that you identified as something you’re watching, what would they be?  

CHAIR POWELL.  I think it’s—you know, it’s things like—clearly, geopolitical risks 

around the world are elevated, and just as clearly, they’ve had relatively little effect on the U.S. 

economy.  Now, that can change through the price of oil or otherwise, but people talk about 

those as, you know, something that’s on the horizon all the time.  But, you know, ultimately, if 

you look at the U.S. economy, its, its performance has been very good.  And that’s, that’s what 

we hear from businesspeople, an expectation that that will continue.  If anything, people feel next 

year—I’ve heard this from several people—that next year could even be stronger than this year.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Andrew. 

Page 17 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

ANDREW ACKERMAN.  Hi.  It’s Andrew Ackerman with the Washington Post.  I just 

wanted to follow up on the discussion earlier on fiscal policy.  Your predecessors Greenspan and 

Volcker spoke up loudly when they thought large budget deficits endangered financial—

economic or financial stability.  Will you do that, too?  And, right now, we’re in a period of full 

employment.  We have large budget deficits and debt at historic, historic highs that are—and 

rising.  Is that something you’d speak out against?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So, you know, I have said many times no more, no less than what the 

predecessors you mentioned have said.  And what that is is that the U.S. fiscal—federal 

government’s fiscal path—fiscal policy is on an unsustainable path.  The level of our debt 

relative to the economy is not unsustainable.  The path is unsustainable.  And we see that.  And, 

you know, you’ve got a very large deficit at—you’re at full employment, and that’s expected to 

continue.  So it’s important that we—you know, that that be dealt with.  It is ultimately a threat 

to the economy.  Now, I can say that.  I don’t have oversight.  We don’t have oversight over 

fiscal policy.  I’ve said it on many occasions—just said it again.  

ANDREW ACKERMAN.  Okay.  Thank you.  I guess the only other question is—to 

follow up on Victoria’s question—do you believe the President has the power to fire or demote 

you, and has the Fed determined the legality of a President demoting at will any of the other 

Governors with leadership positions?  

CHAIR POWELL.  Not permitted under the law.  

ANDREW ACKERMAN.  Not what?  

CHAIR POWELL.  Not permitted under the law.  

ANDREW ACKERMAN.  Thank you. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Courtenay.  

Page 18 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

COURTENAY BROWN.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Courtenay Brown from Axios.  In response 

to Howard’s question, you said it wasn’t an ideal time to give forward guidance because of the 

economic uncertainties.  Can you lay out what some of those uncertainties are and whether or not 

it includes some of the proposals that the President-elect has put out on the campaign trail—

tariffs, for instance?  

CHAIR POWELL.  No.  I was not referring to, to the new Administration’s policies at 

all, nor will I today.  So I—what I’m just saying is, as we look ahead, we know—and I 

mentioned this in my statement—that the risks are two sided.  I guess I should start by saying 

that we think that the economy and we think our policy are both in a very good place, a very 

good place.  And—but as you look forward, you say, “What are the risks?”  And one risk is that 

we would move too quickly and find ourselves having moved too quickly, and inflation comes 

back, and we—and we lost our chance to get inflation back to 2 percent.  So we have to avoid 

that risk.  And that, that—to avoid that risk, that means you want to move carefully.  The other 

risk is that we move too slowly and that we allow the labor market to weaken too much and do 

unnecessary damage to the labor market and to people’s working lives.  That, that says, “Don’t 

get behind the curve.”  

So these are two—these two things are the two risks that we have to manage.  And so 

we’re, we’re in the middle there.  We try to be in the middle and deal with both of the—manage 

both of those.  Again, the idea is to maintain support, the strength that we have in the labor 

market and in the economy, but also with somewhat less restrictive but still restrictive policy, 

enable further progress toward our 2 percent inflation goal.  And so there’s—you know, there—

this is the thing:  Meeting by meeting, we’re going to be making our assessment of what the right 

path is.   

Page 19 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

You know, it’s not as important—the precise timing of these things is not as important as 

the overall arc of them, and the arc of them is to move from where we are now to a sense of 

neutral, a more neutral policy.  We don’t know exactly where that is; we only know it by its 

works.  We’re pretty sure it’s below where we are now.  But as we move further, there will be 

more uncertainty about where that is.  And we’re going to move carefully as, as this goes on so 

that, you know, we can increase the chances that we will get it right.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Simon.  

SIMON RABINOVITCH.  Thank you, Chair Powell.  Simon Rabinovitch with the 

Economist.  I know you don’t want to share your decomposition of bond yields, but if you look 

at the breakevens, it, it is clear that longer-term inflation expectations do seem to have risen up at 

about 2.5 percent, for example, on the five-year.  That’s up half a point from when you cut in 

September.  Do you have any concern at all that longer-term inflation expectations are 

deanchoring or, put another way, are anchoring at a slightly higher level?  Thanks.  

CHAIR POWELL.  So we, we would be concerned if we saw—if we thought we saw 

longer-term inflation expectations anchoring at a higher level.  That’s not what we’re seeing.  

We’re still seeing between surveys and market readings broadly consistent with—you know, I, I 

looked at the five-year, five-year earlier today, and it’s probably moved, but it’s just not—it’s 

just—it’s kind of right where it’s been, and also it’s pretty close to consistent with 2 percent PCE 

inflation.  So that’s one that’s been a traditional one that we look at a lot.  But, overall, 

expectations seem to be—and really have throughout this—in a place that’s consistent with 

2 percent inflation.  But you’re right to say we watch that very carefully, and we will not allow 

inflation expectations to drift upward.  But that’s, that’s really why we reacted so sharply back in 

2022 was, was to avoid that.  

Page 20 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Kelly. 

KELLY O’GRADY.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Kelly O’Grady, CBS News.  We just talked 

about what you’ve heard from business leaders on the economy, but many average Americans 

are still not feeling the strength of the economy in their wallets.  So what’s your message to them 

on when they might expect relief? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So you’re right that, you know, we say that the economy is 

performing well, and it is, but we also know that people are still feeling the effects of high prices, 

for example.  And we went through—the world went through a global inflation shock, and 

inflation went up everywhere.  And, you know, it, it stays with you because the price level 

doesn’t come back down.  So what that takes is it takes some years of real wage gains for people 

to feel better.  And that’s what we’re—that’s what we’re trying to create.  And I think we’re well 

on the road to creating that.  

Inflation has come way down.  The economy is still strong here.  Wages are moving up 

but, but at a sustainable level.  So it’s just—I think—I think what needs to happen is happening 

and, for the most part, has happened.  But it’ll be some time before people, you know, regain 

their confidence and feel that.  And, you know, we don’t tell people how to—how to feel about 

the economy.  We respect—completely respect—what they’re feeling.  Those feelings are true; 

they’re accurate.  We don’t question them.  We—you know, we respect them.  

KELLY O’GRADY.  And just a quick follow-up—President-elect Trump has been 

critical of your performance.  Any concern about his influence on the Fed’s independence?  

CHAIR POWELL.  I’m not going—I’m not going to get into the—any of the political 

things here today, but thank you.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nancy. 

Page 21 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Nancy Marshall-Genzer with 

Marketplace.  What is your plan if we start to see stagflation?  

CHAIR POWELL.  So that’s a—you know, the whole plan is not to have stagflation, so 

we don’t have to deal with it.  So that’s our—that is actually our plan.  [Laughter]  You know, 

it’s, of course, a very difficult thing because you’re—you know, you’re—anything you do with 

interest rates will, will hurt one side or the other, either the inflation mandate or the—or the 

employment mandate.   

I would just say that, you know, we’ve, we’ve been able to see inflation come down a 

whole lot, you know, much closer to our goal without the kind of sharp increase in 

unemployment that has often accompanied programs of disinflation.  So knock on wood, we’ve 

gotten this far without seeing a real weakening in, in the labor market.  And we believe we can 

complete the inflation task while also keeping the labor market strong, and that, of course, is 

exactly what we’re trying to do.  

NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER.  Can you rule out an interest rate hike next year?  

CHAIR POWELL.  I—no.  I wouldn’t rule anything out or in that far away.  But that’s 

certainly not, not our plan.  I mean, our baseline expectation is that we’ll continue to move 

gradually down towards neutral, that the economy will continue to grow at a healthy clip, and 

that the labor market will remain strong.  If you look at our—look at our—that will not change 

from the September SEP.  You know, that is our baseline forecast.  And, short of some 

exogenous event, it will—that will continue to be our forecast for the foreseeable future.  So—

but, ultimately, you know, it’s—we’re not in a—we’re not in a world where we can afford to 

rule, rule things out a full year in advance.  It’s—there’s just too much uncertainty in what we 

do.  

Page 22 of 23 

 
 
 
 
November 7, 2024 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Let’s go to Jean for the last question.  

JEAN YUNG.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Jean Yung with MNI Market News.  I wanted to go 

back to a comment that you had made about Americans being quite unhappy about the 

cumulative price level rises over the past few years, even though now inflation is back on a path 

to 2 percent.  Would it be appropriate for the Fed to undershoot for a while on its inflation goal 

under the average inflation-targeting regime so people have a chance to catch up?  

CHAIR POWELL.  No.  That’s, that’s not the way our framework works.  We’re aiming 

for inflation at, at 2 percent.  We’re—we do not have—we do not think it would be appropriate 

to deliberately undershoot.  And, you know, part of the problem there is that low inflation can be 

a problem, too, in a way.  But that’s not part of our framework, and it’s not something we’re 

going to be—going to be looking at in our framework review. 

Thank you very much. 

Page 23 of 23