SOURCE: https://www.federalreserve.gov/mediacenter/files/FOMCpresconf20250319.pdf

March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

Transcript of Chair Powell’s Press Conference 
March 19, 2025 

CHAIR POWELL.  Good afternoon.  My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on 

achieving our dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of 

the American people.  The economy is strong overall and has made significant progress toward 

our goals over the past two years.  Labor market conditions are solid, and inflation has moved 

closer to our 2 percent longer-run goal, though it remains somewhat elevated. 

In support of our goals, today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave our 

policy interest rate unchanged.  We also made the technical decision to slow the pace of decline 

in the size of our balance sheet.  I’ll have more to say about these decisions after briefly 

reviewing economic developments.  

Economic activity continued to expand at a solid pace in the fourth quarter of last year, 

with GDP rising at 2.3 percent.  Recent indications, however, point to a moderation in consumer 

spending following the rapid growth seen over the second half of 2024.  Surveys of households 

and businesses point to heightened uncertainty about the economic outlook.  It remains to be 

seen how these developments might affect future spending and investment.  In our Summary of 

Economic Projections, the median participant projects GDP to rise 1.7 percent this year, 

somewhat lower than projected in December, and to rise a bit below 2 percent over the next two 

years.  

In the labor market, conditions remain solid.  Payroll job gains averaged 200,000 per 

month over the past three months.  The unemployment rate, at 4.1 percent, remains low and has 

held in a narrow range for the past year.  The jobs-to-workers gap has held steady for several 

months.  Wages are growing faster than inflation and at a more sustainable pace than earlier in 

the pandemic recovery.  Overall, a wide set of indicators suggests that conditions in the labor 

Page 1 of 28 

 
 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

market are broadly in balance.  The labor market is not a source of significant inflationary 

pressures.  The median projection for the unemployment rate in the SEP is 4.4 percent at the end 

of this year and 4.3 percent over the next two years. 

Inflation has eased significantly over the past two years but remains somewhat elevated 

relative to our 2 percent longer-run goal.  Estimates based on the consumer price index and other 

data indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.5 percent over the 12 months ending in February and 

that, excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.8 percent.  Some 

near-term measures of inflation expectations have recently moved up.  We see this in both 

market- and survey-based measures, and survey respondents, both consumers and businesses, are 

mentioning tariffs as a driving factor.  Beyond the next year or so, however, most measures of 

longer-term expectations remain consistent with our 2 percent inflation goal.  The median 

projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 2.7 percent this year and 2.2 percent next year, a 

little higher than projected in December.  In 2027, the median projection is at our 2 percent 

objective. 

Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum 

employment and stable prices for the American people.  At today’s meeting, the Committee 

decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4¼ to 4½ percent.  Looking 

ahead, the new Administration is in the process of implementing significant policy changes in 

four distinct areas:  trade, immigration, fiscal policy, and regulation.  It is the net effect of these 

policy changes that will matter for the economy and for the path of monetary policy.  While there 

have been recent developments in some of these areas, especially trade policy, uncertainty 

around the changes and their effects on the economic outlook is high.  As we parse the incoming 

information, we’re focused on separating the signal from the noise as the outlook evolves.  As 

Page 2 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

we say in our statement, in considering the extent and timing of additional adjustments to the 

target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess incoming data, the evolving 

outlook, and the balance of risks.  We do not need to be in a hurry to adjust our policy stance, 

and we are well positioned to wait for greater clarity. 

In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an 

appropriate path for the federal funds rate, based on what each participant judges to be the most 

likely scenario going forward—an admittedly challenging exercise at this time in light of 

considerable uncertainty.  The median participant projects that the appropriate level of the 

federal funds rate will be 3.9 percent at the end of this year and 3.4 percent at the end of next 

year, unchanged from December.  While these individual forecasts are always subject to 

uncertainty, as I noted, uncertainty today is unusually elevated.  And, of course, these projections 

are not a Committee plan or a decision. 

Policy is not on a preset course.  As the economy evolves, we will adjust our policy 

stance in a manner that best promotes our maximum-employment and price-stability goals.  If 

the economy remains strong and inflation does not continue to move sustainably toward 

2 percent, we can maintain policy restraint for longer.  If the labor market were to weaken 

unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we can ease policy 

accordingly.  Our current policy stance is well positioned to deal with the risks and uncertainties 

that we face in pursuing both sides of our dual mandate. 

At today’s meeting, we also decided to slow the pace of decline in our balance sheet.  

Since we began balance sheet runoff, our securities holdings have declined by more than $2 

trillion.  While market indicators continue to suggest that the quantity of reserves remains 

abundant, we have seen some signs of increased tightness in money markets.  Beginning in 

Page 3 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

April, the monthly cap on Treasury redemptions will be lowered from $25 billion to $5 billion.  

Consistent with the Committee’s intention to hold primarily Treasury securities in the longer run, 

we are leaving the cap on agency securities unchanged.  This action has no implications for our 

intended stance of monetary policy and should not affect the size of our balance sheet over the 

medium term. 

The Committee also continued its discussions as part of our five-year review of our 

monetary policy framework.  At this meeting, we focused on labor market dynamics and our 

maximum-employment goal.  As we have indicated, our review will include outreach and public 

events involving a wide range of parties, including Fed Listens events around the country and a 

research conference in May.  Throughout this process, we will be open to new ideas and critical 

feedback, and we will take on board lessons of the last five years in determining our findings.  

We intend to wrap up the review by late summer.    

The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy:  maximum employment and 

stable prices.  We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation 

sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well 

anchored.  Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans.  We understand 

that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country.  Everything we 

do is in service to our public mission.  We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our 

maximum-employment and price-stability goals. 

Thank you. I will look forward to your questions. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Howard. 

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Howard Schneider with Reuters.  Thanks for your time.  So 

two things on sort of the real side here, one inflation and then—and then GDP.  How much of the 

Page 4 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

higher inflation forecast for this year is due to tariffs, and since the policy path remains the same, 

are you effectively reading this as a one-time price-level shock? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Okay, so how much of it is, is tariffs? So let me say that it is going to 

be very difficult to have a precise assessment of how much of inflation is coming from tariffs 

and from, from other—and that’s already the case.  You may have seen that goods inflation 

moved up pretty significantly in the first two months of the year.  Trying to track that back to 

actual tariff increases, given what was tariffed and what was not—very, very challenging.  So 

some of it—the, the answer is clearly some of it—a good part of it is, is coming from tariffs.  But 

we’ll be—we’ll be working, and so will other forecasters, to try to find the best possible way to 

separate nontariff inflation from tariff inflation.  

In terms of the, the—your, your sort of looking-through question, too soon to say about 

that.  As, as I’ve mentioned, it, it can be the case that it’s appropriate sometimes to look through 

inflation if it’s going to go away quickly without action by, by us, if it’s transitory.  And that can 

be the case in the case of, of tariff inflation.  I think that would depend on the, the tariff inflation 

moving through fairly quickly and would depend critically, as well, on inflation expectations 

being well anchored—longer-term inflation expectations being well anchored.  

HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Well, I, I guess I’m looking at the obvious here—the fact that 

the policy path doesn’t change at all and inflation is unchanged in the outyears also.  Doesn’t that 

imply you all have basically decided that there is no signal here and that it’s just going to—we’re 

back to “transitory” again? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I think—I think that’s kind of the base case, but, as I said, it’s—

we really can’t know that.  We’re going to have to see how things actually, actually work out.  

And the fact that there wasn’t much change—I think that’s, that’s partly because, you know, you 

Page 5 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

see—you see weaker growth but higher inflation.  They kind of offset.  And also, frankly, a little 

bit of inertia when it—when it comes to changing something in this highly uncertain 

environment.  You know, you’re—you, you know, I think there is a level of inertia where you 

just say, “Maybe I’ll stay where I am.” 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Colby. 

COLBY SMITH.  Thank you.  Colby Smith with the New York Times.  You just 

described inflation expectations as well anchored, but has your confidence in that assessment 

changed at all, given the increase in certain measures and the high degree of uncertainty 

expressed by businesses, households, and forecasters? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So our inflation expectations—of course, we do monitor inflation 

expectations very, very carefully—basically, every source we can find, and, you know—short-

term, long-term, households, businesses, forecasters, market-based.  And I think the picture, 

broadly, is this:  You do see increases widely in short-term inflation expectations.  And people 

who fill out surveys and answer, you know, questionnaires are pointing to tariffs about that.  If 

you look—in the survey world, if you look a little further out, you, you really—you really don’t 

see much in the way of an increased longer-term inflation—inflation expectations are mostly 

well anchored, if you look at the [series maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of] New York, 

for example.  Then you have market based, and it’s the same pattern.  You know, people and 

markets are pricing in and, and breakevens, some higher inflation over the next year must be 

related to tariffs.  We know from the surveys.  But if you look out five years or five-year, five-

year forward, you’ll see that breakevens have—are either flat or, actually, slightly down in the 

case of a longer-term one. 

Page 6 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

So we look at that, and we will be watching all of it very, very carefully.  We do not take 

anything for granted.  That’s at the very heart of our framework:  anchored inflation 

expectations.  But what—that’s what you see right now. 

COLBY SMITH.  And, and how much weight do you put on the deterioration in 

consumer confidence surveys?  You said recently that this is perhaps not the best indication of 

future spending.  But I’m curious, you know, what you think is behind this deterioration and, and 

to what extent it could be a leading indicator for hard data. 

CHAIR POWELL.  So let’s start with the hard data.  You know, we, we do see pretty 

solid hard data still.  So growth looks like it’s maybe moderating a bit, consumer spending 

moderating a bit, but still at a solid pace.  Unemployment’s 4.1 percent.  Job creation, most 

recently, has been at a healthy level.  Inflation has started to move up now, we think partly in 

response to tariffs, and there may be a delay in further progress over the course of this year.  So 

that’s the hard data.  Overall, it’s a solid picture.  The, the survey data, [in the case of] both 

household and businesses, show significant rise in uncertainty and significant concerns about 

downside risks.  So how do we think about that?  And that’s—that is the question. 

As I mentioned the other day, as you pointed out, the relationship between survey data 

and actual economic activity hasn’t been very tight.  There have been plenty of times where 

people are saying very down—downbeat things about the economy and then going out and 

buying a new car.  But we don’t know that that will be the case here.  We will be watching very 

carefully for signs of weakness in the real data.  Of course we will.  But I, I—you know, given 

where we are, we think our policy’s in a good place to react to, to what comes.  And we think 

that the right thing to do is, is to wait here for, you know, for greater clarity about, about what, 

what the economy’s doing. 

Page 7 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Nick.  

NICK TIMIRAOS.  Nick Timiraos, the Wall Street Journal.  Chair Powell, Chair 

Greenspan once defined price stability as, as an environment in which inflation is so low and 

stable over time that it doesn’t materially enter into the decisions of households and firms.  Can 

you say that today we have that price stability—that households and businesses are ignoring 

price growth, or do you see, by an advanced psychology, big changes in inventories and surveys 

that show consumers, at least in the short run, expect higher inflation? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I, I do like that definition a lot.  In fact, I used it at the recent 

conference where I spoke.  So I think a world where, where people can make their daily 

economic decisions, and businesses, and they’re not having to think about the possibility of 

significantly high inflation—we know inflation will bounce around.  That’s, that is price 

stability.  You know, I think we were getting closer and closer to that.  I wouldn’t say we were at 

that.  Inflation was running around 2½ percent for some time.  I do think with the arrival of, of 

the tariff inflation, further progress may be delayed, if the SEP doesn’t really show further 

downward progress on inflation this year.  And that, that’s really due to the tariffs coming in.  

So, delayed, but if you look at our forecast, we do see ourselves getting back into the low 2s in 

’26 and then down to 2 [percent] by ’27—of course, highly uncertain.  So I see progress having, 

having been made toward that, and then progress in the future.  I think that progress is probably 

delayed for the time being. 

NICK TIMIRAOS.  If that’s the case, why are there cuts in the SEP for 2025? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So, again, people wrote down two cuts the last time, and they look 

at—they look at the—you know, the—and they wrote down, you know, meaningful decline in 

growth out from 2.1 to 1.7 in 2025, a tick up in the unemployment rate, so not much there, but 

Page 8 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

core inflation up by three-tenths.  And so those two kind of—those kind of balance each other 

out.  So people—not everybody, but, on balance, people wrote down similar numbers.  The 

changes aren’t that big. 

The other—the other factor, though, as I mentioned, is just really high uncertainty.  What 

would you write down?  I mean, it’s just—it’s really hard to know how this is going to work out.  

And, again, we think our policy’s in a good place.  We think it’s a good place where we can 

move in the direction that—where we need to.  But in the meantime, we, we—it’s, it’s really 

appropriate to wait for further clarity, and, of course, you know, the costs of doing that, given 

that the economy is still solid, are very low. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Edward. 

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Edward Lawrence with Fox 

Business.  So with near 4 percent unemployment rate, that should be low enough to bring people 

in from the sidelines in terms of hiring.  But we’re seeing the hiring rates have been stuck at 

2023, 2024 levels.  So, what’s going on there? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah, so that’s a feature of the—has been for some time, a feature of 

this labor market.  You have pretty high participation, accounting for aging.  You’ve got wages 

that are consistent with 2 percent inflation, assuming that we’re going to keep getting, you know, 

relatively high productivity.  We’ve got unemployment, you know, pretty close to its natural 

level.  But job—the hiring rate is quite low, but so is the layoff rate.  So the, the—you look at 

initial claims or layoffs.  So you’re not seeing people losing their jobs, but you’re seeing that 

people who don’t have a job having to wait longer and longer.  And, you know, the question is, 

which way does that break?  If we were to see a meaningful increase in layoffs, then that would 

probably translate fairly quickly into unemployment, because people are—you know, it’s, it’s 

Page 9 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

not a—it’s not a big hiring market.  We’ve been watching that, and it’s just not in the data.  It 

hasn’t happened.  What we’ve had is, is a low-firing, low-hiring situation, and it seems to be in 

balance now for, you know, for the last six, seven, eight months.  That’s where we are.  There’s 

healthy levels of job creation, too.  So, overall, it’s a labor market that’s in balance, and, you 

know, we, we watch it very carefully. 

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  So then, have we seen the Administration—the new 

Administration’s policies in the economic numbers yet?  And when do you anticipate that 

happening? 

CHAIR POWELL.  In labor? Or in, in other—? 

EDWARD LAWRENCE.  In labor and inflation, just across the economy.  Have we 

started to see the new policies take effect in the numbers? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I, you know, only in a—kind of an early way.  I mean, it’s only been 

a few months, right?  You know, for example, the, the layoffs that are happening here are, you 

know, they’re certainly meaningful to the people involved, and they may be meaningful to a 

particular neighborhood or region or area, but at the national level, they’re not—they’re not 

significant yet.  But we don’t know.  We don’t know what—where that—how far that will go.  

We’ll, we’ll find out much more. 

I mentioned that—you, you saw it—we’ve had two, two very strong goods inflation 

readings in the last two months, which is very unexpected, and, I think, hard to trace it to specific 

tariffs.  But it must have—it must have something to do with—it’s either noise and it’ll come 

back, and that—that’s very possible, too.  But if it is persistent, then it must be to do with, you 

know, people buying ahead of tariffs, or raising prices ahead of tariffs, and things like that.  

That—those kinds of things happen, and they’re very, very hard to capture because so much of it 

Page 10 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

is indirect.  A great example is there—washing machines were tariffed in the last, last round of 

tariffs, and prices went up, but prices also went up on, on dryers, which were not tariffed.  So the 

manufacturers just, you know, they just kind of followed the crowd and, and raised it.  So things 

happen very indirectly, and so there’ll be a lot of work done in the coming months to, to try to 

trace all that through.  But, ultimately, though, it’s too soon to be seeing significant effects in 

economic data. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Craig.  

CRAIG TORRES.  Craig Torres from Bloomberg News.  Thanks, Chair Powell.  You 

said transitory price increases from tariffs are the base case—transitory is the base case.  Wasn’t 

it the base case last time?  And didn’t the FOMC forecast lower inflation ahead last time?  And 

wasn’t the lesson that it quickly got into services, haircuts, daycare, everything else?  And so I’m 

just wondering why the nine aren’t taking that on board and are cutting twice this year. 

CHAIR POWELL.  When you say “last time,” are you talking about the last— 

CRAIG TORRES.  Pandemic, yes—during the pandemic. 

CHAIR POWELL.  You could have been talking about the last time there were tariffs. 

CRAIG TORRES.  Okay. 

CHAIR POWELL.  In which case, the inflation was, was transitory. 

CRAIG TORRES.  Yeah. 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah.  No—of course, we’re well aware of that.  And, you know, 

it’s, it’s still the truth, if, if there’s an inflationary impulse that’s going to go away on its own, it’s 

not the right policy to, to tighten policy, because by the time you have your effect, you’re—you 

know, you’re—an effect that by—by design, you are lowering economic activity and 

employment.  And if that’s not necessary, you don’t want to do it.  In real time, as we know, it’s 

Page 11 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

hard to make that judgment.  So—and, and we’re well aware, you know, of what happened, 

obviously, with, with the pandemic inflation.  But, I mean, we have to look at this as a—as a 

different situation.  There’s, there are differences and similarities.  I mean, it’s a different time.  

You know, we haven’t had real price stability fully reestablished yet, and we have to keep that in 

mind.  And, you know, we also have—we hear that people are very reluctant to take on—to, you 

know, to, to allow prices to go up.  At the same time, we hear that businesses are intending to 

pass many of these prices through.  So it’s hard to say how this is going to work out. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Steve. 

STEVE LIESMAN.  Steve, Steve Liesman, CNBC.  Thanks for taking my question, 

Mr. Chairman.  The Bank of Canada in its last policy statement said, “Monetary policy cannot 

offset the impacts of a trade war.  What it can and must do is ensure that higher prices do not 

lead to ongoing inflation.”  I wonder if that kind of reflects your own sense of prioritization, 

faced with higher prices and weaker growth—that the idea is, you have to take care of inflation. 

CHAIR POWELL.  You know—so we, we have two goals, right?  We have maximum 

employment and price stability, and we have to balance those.  And, you know, there can be 

situations in which they are in tension, right?  And we have, actually have a provision in our—in 

our consensus statement that says what we should do in that case.  That’s a very challenging, you 

know, situation for, for any central bank, and certainly for us.  And so, what we say that we’ll do 

is, we’ll, we’ll look how far each of those two goals is—each of those two measures is from its 

goal, and then we’ll ask how long we think it might take to get back to the goal for each of them, 

and we’ll make a judgment, because our, you know, our tools work in one direction.  We’re 

either tightening or loosening.  So it’s a very challenging situation.  Let me say, we don’t have 

that situation right now.  That’s not what the—that’s not where the economy is at all.  It’s also 

Page 12 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

not where the forecast is.  I don’t know any mainstream forecast that really shows significant 

problems like that, so— 

STEVE LIESMAN.  Well, just to follow up, yesterday the UCLA Anderson Forecast said 

there’s—a high probability of a recession.  Where, where do you stand on whether or not the 

slowdown you’re seeing creates a higher probability or concern that you may have on recession?  

Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL.  You know, there’s always an unconditional probability—possibility 

of, of a recession.  It might be broadly in the range of one in four at any time, if you look back 

through, through the years.  It—there could be, within 12 months, a one in four chance of a 

recession.  So the question is, is whether that—whether this current situation, those possibilities 

are elevated.  I will say this:  We don’t—we don’t make such a forecast.  If you look at outside 

forecasts, forecasters have, have generally raised—a number of them have raised their possibility 

of a—of a recession somewhat, but still at relatively moderate levels—you know, still in the 

region of, of the traditional, because they were extremely low.  If you go back two months, 

people were saying that the, the likelihood of a recession was extremely low.  So, has moved up, 

but it’s not high. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Chris.  

CHRISTOPHER RUGABER.  Hi.  Thank you.  Chris Rugaber at Associated Press.  As 

you know, I guess, last night the—President Trump fired two members of the Federal Trade 

Commission, an independent agency, and this could cause the kind of legal fight about the 

Administration’s power to fire independent people.  If those firings stand, is that a threat to the 

Fed’s independence?  Could he do the same thing to the Fed Board? 

Page 13 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I think I, I did answer that question in this very room some time 

ago, and I, I [have] no desire to change that answer and have nothing new for you on that today. 

CHRISTOPHER RUGABER.  Well, I just—okay, well, maybe I’ll have another 

mulligan.  [Laughter]  As you know, I, I wanted to go back to the consumer sentiment, 

particularly the inflation expectations in the University of Michigan survey.  In the summer of 

2022, you cited the rise in the long-term inflation expectations in that index as the reason that 

you went big with a three-quarter-point hike.  So I know you’ve—I mean, you’ve talked about 

all the different measures now, but you seem to not be placing the same weight on that.  And so 

I’m just wondering, are you dismissing that, what we saw last week from the University of 

Michigan, or does that carry the same weight as it did in the past? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I, I mentioned it back then, but in no way did I place a huge 

weight on it.  I think it, it—that was an ex post story, but it wasn’t the case.  That was a 

preliminary reading, and so is this.  And it’s also—this is—that, that Michigan, the one you’re 

referring to, the longer-term thing—you know, we look at it, and we don’t dismiss data that we 

don’t like.  We, we force ourselves to look at it.  But it is an outlier compared to market-based 

and compared to other survey-based assessments of longer-run inflation expectations, so we’ve 

got to keep that in mind.  And I, I—again, I, I would just say, we look at—we look at all of them.  

And that one—that one’s kind of an outlier, but, you know, nonetheless, we, we take notice of it. 

CHRISTOPHER RUGABER.  Thank you.  

MICHELLE SMITH.  Michael. 

MICHAEL MCKEE.  Michael McKee from Bloomberg Radio and Television.  There is a 

worry on Wall Street that when you say you want to study the net effect of the fiscal policies, we 

may see on the economy that you would end up waiting too long and be “behind the curve” in 

Page 14 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

responding to any downturn.  How can you reassure people that you can spot a problem early 

enough, unless you decide to be preemptive? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah, look, we’re, we’re aware of the—we’re well aware of how 

things are going to evolve and the time frames and all that, and, you know, we will—we will use 

our tools to foster achievement of our goals to the—to the best we can.  And, of course, we’re 

going to try to be timely with that.  For right now, the hard data are pretty solid.  We, we are 

obviously aware of the soft sentiment data and high uncertainty, and we’re watching that 

carefully.  And we think it’s a, a good time for us to wait for further clarity before we consider 

adjusting our, our policy stance. 

MICHAEL MCKEE.  Do you think it’s going to be hard to get clarity in a “government 

by tweet”?  I mean, do you have a, a feeling that at some point you actually will have a forecast 

you can trust? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yes, I think we will.  I just—it’s hard to say when that will be.  You 

know, we’re—these decisions are going to be made, and they’re going to be implemented, and 

then we’ll know.  At that point, we’ll know what the decisions are, and we’ll have to make 

assessments then about their, their implications for the economy.  Those things will happen.  A 

lot of them will happen over the course of, you know, in coming months, certainly over the 

course of this year, and we’ll be adapting as we go. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Rachel. 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Rachel Siegel from the Washington Post.  Thank 

you for taking our questions.  At the beginning, you were talking about separating the signal 

from the noise, and tariff inflation from nontariff inflation.  Can you “walk us through” what that 

Page 15 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

looked like over the last couple of months—if there were specifics, from the January meeting to 

now, that helped you make those distinctions? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So when we say “separating the signal from the noise,” that’s just a 

way of saying that things are highly uncertain and that, you know, you’re reading about 

developments—the news is full of developments of tariffs being put on and taken off and things 

like that.  That’s—some of that is noise in the sense that it’s, it’s not really telling you anything.  

You’re trying to extract a signal from that, and the signal is what’s going to be the effect on 

economic activity, on inflation, on employment, and all those things.  So, so that’s really when 

we say “signal and noise.” 

Sorry, the second thing was—? 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  Or, similarly for tariff inflation, nontariff inflation, ways that you’re 

making the distinction. 

CHAIR POWELL.  That’s, that’s sort of a, a special case of that—of, you know, with the 

idea being—and I think—do think that the first two months of this year are a great example.  

You’ve got high readings for goods inflation after a string of readings that averaged close to 

zero, and you have to ask—it’s coming during tariffs, but, you know, you—it’s very hard to, 

actually, scientifically go back and match up those increases and say, “Yes, I can prove that 

that’s from tariffs.”  But it kind of has to be, to some extent.  Plus, noise.  There can be 

idiosyncratic readings in various categories, which will shortly reverse, and that, that happens, 

too, and that could be a big piece of it.  You know, I think we’ll know.  In a couple of months, 

we’ll know whether those were—you know, where that really was from.  But it’s a—that’s 

another case where I think it’s going to be very, very challenging to unpack the inflation that we 

see over the course of this year and be able to say with confidence how much of that came from 

Page 16 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

inflation and how much of it—sorry, from tariffs—and how much of it didn’t.  But that’s what 

we’ll be doing.  We’ll be doing that, and so will everybody else, and we’ll all be trying very hard 

to, to make that assessment.  And, you know, I, I’m sure we will make a lot of progress on that.  

And we already have.  But it, it’s going to be a challenge. 

RACHEL SIEGEL.  Do you have a sense yet as to what, in your mind, what makes 

something cross from noise to a signal—what that threshold would look like? 

CHAIR POWELL.  You know, it would depend on what we’re talking about.  I mean, 

obviously, you’re looking for direct evidence that, that particular pieces of, of inflation are, are—

or are clearly not—caused by tariffs.  For example, something that was, you know, in the service 

sector that was far away from anything that’s tariffed.  You, you might think, okay, well that is—

like, frankly, housing services inflation—which, which, by the way, has been behaving well.  

You know—which, for, for some time, was kind of our problem.  Now it’s been—it’s slow, but 

it’s definitely, you know, moving down in a—in a very good way.  It’s more now with goods 

and, to some extent, with, with nonhousing services inflation. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Kelly. 

KELLY O’GRADY.  Thanks for taking our questions, Chair Powell.  Kelly O’Grady, 

CBS News.  So consumer sentiment has dipped dramatically, but you say the economy and the 

hard data is still solid.  What is your message to consumers that clearly disagree and don’t feel 

that strength?  Because the hard data they’re looking at is their grocery bill. 

CHAIR POWELL.  Okay, so a couple things.  The grocery bill is about, about past 

inflation, really.  There was inflation in ’21, ’22, and ’23, and prices went up.  The current 

level—it’s not the change in prices.  It’s, they’re unhappy—and, and they’re not wrong to be 

unhappy—that prices went up quite a bit, and they’re paying a lot for those things.  So that’s—I 

Page 17 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

think that is the fundamental fact and has been for a long time—a couple years—why people are 

unhappy with the—with the economy.  It’s not that the economy’s not growing.  It’s not that 

inflation’s really high.  It’s not that unemployment is high.  It’s none of those things.  We have, 

you know, 4.1 percent unemployment.  We’ve got 2 percent growth, and, you know, it’s, it’s a 

pretty good economy.  But people are unhappy because of the price level.  And, and I do—we 

completely understand and accept that. 

KELLY O’GRADY.  And just to follow up:  Why are you still projecting two rate cuts 

this year if your own projections show inflation higher for longer?  Does that mean you see a 

slowdown in economic growth as a real threat? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So I, I think if you—yeah, I mean, remember, we came into this 

with—at the December meeting, and the median was two cuts, the median was.  And so you 

come in, and you see, broadly speaking, weaker growth but higher inflation.  And they kind of 

balance each other out, so you think—and, and unemployment is really, really only, only a one-

tenth change.  So it’s—there’s just not a big change in the forecast.  There really isn’t.  Modest, 

you know, meaningfully higher growth and meaningfully higher inflation, which call for 

different responses, right?  So they cancel each other out, and people just said, “Okay, I’m going 

to stay here.” 

But the second factor is, it’s so highly uncertain.  Is just—you know, we’re sitting here 

thinking—and we, we obviously are in, in touch with businesses and households all over the 

country.  We have an extraordinary network of contacts that come in through the Reserve Banks 

and put it in the Beige Book—and also through contacts at the Board.  And we get all that, and 

we, we do understand that sentiment has fallen off pretty sharply, but economic activity has not 

yet.  And so we’re watching carefully.  So I would tell people that the economy seems to be—

Page 18 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

seems to be healthy.  We understand that, that sentiment is, is quite negative at this time, and that 

probably has to do with, you know, turmoil at the beginning of an Administration.  It’s making, 

you know, big changes in, in areas of policy, and that’s probably part of it.  I do think the 

underlying unhappiness people have about the economy, though, is more—is more about the 

price level. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Victoria.  

VICTORIA GUIDA.  Hi.  Victoria Guida with Politico.  I wanted to ask, first of all, if 

you could clarify.  You were talking about how tariffs were a good part of the uptick in the 

inflation forecasts, and I was just wondering what that specifically refers to.  Is that the tariffs 

that have already been put in place?  Is that anticipating some of the tariffs that might be coming 

on April 2?  And then also, if you wouldn’t mind talking a little more about the balance sheet 

decision and what drove that.  Did that have anything to do with expectations of how the debt 

ceiling—raising the debt ceiling might affect the reserve supply? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah, so, in the SEP, you’ll see that there’s not further progress on 

core inflation this year.  We’re kind of side flatlining, going sideways.  We don’t ask people to 

say—to write down how much of this is from tariffs and how much of it is not.  But some of it is 

from tariffs.  We know that tariffs are coming, and we know that they’re probably already—all, 

all forecasters have tariff inflation affecting core PCE inflation [and] core CPI inflation this year, 

without exception.  I’m not aware of an exception.  So it’s in there.  I can’t tell you how much of 

that it is. 

In terms of the balance sheet—so, yeah, we—I think—I guess the way I’d say it is, you 

know, it was the flows in and out of the, the TGA that got us thinking about it, but as we, you 

know, as we thought about it, we really came to the view that this was a good time to, to make 

Page 19 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

the move that we made.  And, broadly, Committee came around—came around to the view that 

we, we would do the same thing we’d already done, which is, once we—I guess in June, we—

was it June?  Whenever it was, we, we lowered the pace of QT, and we’re just going to do that 

again.  We’re going to cut it roughly in half.  And the sense of that is, if you’re cutting the pace 

of QT roughly in half, then the runway is probably doubled, okay?  So it’s going—it’s going to 

be slower for longer.  And people really liked that.  People thought, “That’s, that’s a good idea.”  

You know, it’s like a plane.  You can think of it like a plane coming in for a landing.  As we get 

closer and we—by the way, we still think that reserves are abundant, although you begin to see 

some of the—some of the things we look at begin to react a little bit, but we still think that 

they’re abundant.  And, of course, now, the TGA is emptying out, so reserves are, are higher 

now, so you can’t really see the underlying signal.  So we came around to the view, and, and it 

had a lot of appeal, and so we did it.  It really—it has no implications at all for monetary policy.  

It has no implications at all for the ultimate size of the balance sheet.  It isn’t sending a signal in 

any hidden way that you can try to tease out.  It’s just not there.  We’re, we’re basically—it’s 

very consistent with our plans and our practices that we’ve published and that we’ve followed 

since we began this—what is a very successful, you know, rundown of the balance sheet.  Again, 

[this is] the second time that we’ve slowed the pace.  And we’ve said that we would stop when 

we were somewhat above the level [of reserves] we judge as ample.  And, clearly, we’re not at 

that level yet, but we’re going to be approaching it more slowly.  It’s a commonsense kind of a—

kind of a thing, and it had—it had pretty broad appeal, I will say. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Claire.  

CLAIRE JONES.  Claire Jones, Financial Times.  You said in January, Chair Powell, 

that inflation expectations remained well anchored.  Would you still say they remain well 

Page 20 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

anchored today?  And just to reiterate the question others have asked, if they’re not so well 

anchored, why hasn’t there been a more radical shift to the policy path today?  Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL.  So when we—when we talk about inflation expectations being well 

anchored, we’re talking about longer-run inflation expectations.  And they really haven’t moved 

much, I mean, if at all.  There, there’s one reading that everyone’s focusing on that’s higher, but 

the other survey readings and the market-based readings all show relatively, you know, well-

anchored inflation expectations.  You would expect that expectations of inflation over the course 

of a year would move around, because conditions change, and in this case, we have tariffs 

coming in.  We don’t know how big, what’s—there’s so many things we don’t know, but we 

kind of know there are going to be tariffs, and they tend to bring growth down.  They tend to 

bring inflation up at the—in the first instance.  So, so I would say, you, you know, I’m not 

dismissing what we’re seeing in short-term inflation expectations.  We, as I mentioned, follow 

that very carefully.  But when we say expectations are well anchored, we’re really looking at, 

you know, longer term, five year and out, and there’s really no story to tell five years and out, 

either in market based or, or in surveys.  But we keep—we’ll watch it.  I mean, we’re not, you 

know, we’re, we’re not going to miss any evidence that longer-term or medium-term inflation 

expectations are, are moving. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Neil.  

NEIL IRWIN.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Neil Irwin with Axios.  Treasury Secretary Bessent has 

observed that a large share of job growth over the last couple of years has been in what he calls 

government or government-adjacent sectors—health care, education.  Do you agree that there’s 

some weakness in underlying private job growth, and do you see the composition of job growth 

as something that has policy implications? 

Page 21 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

CHAIR POWELL.  So that, that has been the case.  We talked about that over the course 

of the last year.  There were—there were some good number of months and times when a lot of 

the job creation was, was concentrated in, you know, educational institutions, health care, state 

governments, things like that.  There were also times when private-sector job growth has been 

moving, moving in a healthy frame—and they’re all—they’re all jobs, but—and remember, 

we’re, you know, we’re at very low unemployment for, you know, for, for quite a time now.  So 

I, I think it’s a good labor market, but it’s—look, it’s something that we monitor carefully.  From 

our standpoint, employment is employment.  But I, you know—the, the elected government is 

entitled to have—you know, we, we don’t have policies that address different kinds of 

employment.  But, but the elected government has a—has a different role, and they can—they, 

they can have those.  

NEIL IRWIN.  True.  Quick QT question:  Does the Committee envision at some point 

tapering the MBS runoff, runoff as well? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I think tapering it—I, I don’t know.  There’s no plan to do that.  You 

know, at a certain point, we’ll stop runoff.  And we may or may not stop MBS runoff, though, 

because, you know, we can—we can—we, we want to stop runoff in net at some point.  We 

haven’t made any decisions about that, but, you know, we, we want the—we want the MBS to 

roll off our balance sheet.  We really, strongly desire that, so—but we haven’t made any 

decisions about that, you know.  We, we will—we—I think we’d, we’d look carefully at letting 

that keep going, but hold the overall size of the balance sheet in, you know, constant, at some 

point—a point that we’re not at yet. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Simon. 

Page 22 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

SIMON RABINOVITCH.  Simon Rabinovitch with the Economist.  Thank you, Chair 

Powell.  Several times today, you’ve said that you feel you’re well positioned to wait for greater 

clarity.  At the same time, you could point to quite a few growth risks at the moment.  We’ve 

seen a stock market that’s gone quite wobbly, rapidly cooling housing sales, plunging confidence 

surveys.  Today, not only did the SEP mark down the growth outlook, 17 of 19 see risks to the 

downside.  So my question is, how confident are you that you’re well positioned?  Or is that one 

more thing that you’re uncertain about? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I’m confident that we’re well positioned in the sense that we’re, 

we’re well positioned to move in the direction we’ll need to move.  I, I mean, I, I don’t know 

anyone who has a lot of confidence in their forecast.  I mean, the point is, we are—we are at, you 

know, we’re at a place where we can cut or we—or we can hold what is a clearly a restrictive 

stance of policy.  And that’s what I mean.  I, I mean, I think we’re—that’s well positioned.  

Forecasting right now, it’s—you know, forecasting is always very, very hard, and in the current 

situation, I just think it’s—uncertainty is, you know, remarkably high. 

SIMON RABINOVITCH.  And, sorry, standing here today, would you be surprised to, to 

pivot back towards rate cuts in May? 

CHAIR POWELL.  I, like, I, I think we’re not going to be in any hurry to move.  And, as 

I mentioned, I think we’re, we’re well positioned to wait for further clarity, and not in any hurry. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Matt Egan. 

MATT EGAN.  Matt Egan with CNN.  Thank you, Chair Powell.  The Fed’s statement 

released today removed the line that previously said “the Committee judges that the risks to 

achieving its employment and inflation goals are roughly in balance.”  Can you explain the 

Page 23 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

decision to remove that line?  Does it mean that you’re now more concerned about inflation or 

about employment? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Actually, it does not mean either of those things.  You know, 

sometimes with language they—it, it lives its, its useful life, and then we take it off, and we—

and, and that was the case there.  There’s really not meant to be any signal here.  Over the past 

year, you know, conveying this sense of the balance of risks was important that they be in 

balance or close to being in balance.  That was useful as we approach liftoff, if you remember.  

But we’re past that.  Or, I’m sorry, no—beginning, beginning to cut.  So we just—so we just 

took it out.  I, I actually would say that the more important thing now about risks—and this is in, 

in pages like 10, 11, 12 of the SEP—if you look, participants widely raised their estimate of, of 

the risks to our—of uncertainty, but also of the risks to growth in our employment and inflation 

mandates.  That’s, that’s a more salient point now than whether they’re—whether they’re in 

balance. 

MATT EGAN.  Just on the, the stock market, the stock market has obviously declined 

significantly since the Fed last met.  Are you concerned at all about some of the market volatility 

having a real economic impact in terms of hurting business spending or consumer spending, 

especially among higher-income households? 

CHAIR POWELL.  So financial conditions matter to us because, you know, financial 

conditions are the main channel to the real economy through which our policy has its effect.  So, 

so they’re important.  But what matters from, from a Fed standpoint for the macroeconomy is 

material changes to overall financial conditions that are persistent, that last for a while—long 

enough to actually affect economic activity.  So that’s what we’re looking for.  I, I’m not going 

to opine on the appropriate level of any market—equity, debt, commodities, or anything like that. 

Page 24 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

And I would just point you to the—to the bigger picture again.  You know, the, the real 

economy, the, the hard data are still in, in reasonably good shape.  It’s the soft data—it’s the 

surveys that are showing, you know, significant concerns, downside risks, and those kind of 

things.  We don’t dismiss that.  We’re watching it carefully, but, you know, we, we don’t want to 

get ahead of that.  You know, we, we want to focus on the hard data.  This—if it’s—if that’s 

going to affect the hard data, we should know it very quickly, and, and, of course, we’ll, we’ll 

understand that.  But you don’t see that yet. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Jennifer. 

JENNIFER SCHONBERGER.  Thank you, Chair Powell.  Jennifer Schonberger with 

Yahoo Finance.  As you look to navigate higher inflation and lower growth, the Fed has talked 

about heeding the lessons from the 1970s.  Is the Fed willing to have a recession if it means 

breaking the back of inflation? 

CHAIR POWELL.  Well, fortunately, we’re in a situation where we have seen inflation 

move down from, you know, higher levels to pretty close to 2 percent, while the unemployment 

rate has remained very consistent with full employment, 4.1 percent.  So we now have inflation 

coming in from an exogenous source, but the underlying inflationary picture before that was, you 

know, basically 2½ percent inflation, I would say, and 2 percent growth, and 4 percent 

unemployment.  So, so that’s what—that’s what we did.  That’s what, together, the economy 

accomplished.  So I don’t see any reason to think that we’re looking at, at a replay of the ’70s or 

anything like that.  You know, inflation—underlying inflation is, is, you know, still running in 

the 2s, with probably a little bit of a pickup associated with tariffs.  So I, I don’t think we’re 

facing—I, I wouldn’t say we’re in, in a situation that’s remotely comparable to that. 

Page 25 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

JENNIFER SCHONBERGER.  And last month, the idea of a DOGE dividend was 

proposed, which would send $5,000 checks to every taxpayer from DOGE savings.  President 

Trump and Elon Musk have supported this.  There’s reports there could be a bill introduced on 

Capitol Hill.  What impact might that have on household savings and spending in terms of your 

growth and, and outlook for inflation? 

CHAIR POWELL.  You know, I—it’s not—it’s not appropriate for me to speculate on 

political ideas or, or fiscal policy, for that matter.  So I’m going to—I’m going to pass on that 

one.  Thank you. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Daniel. 

DANIEL AVIS.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Daniel Avis from Agence France-Presse.  You 

mentioned that tariffs are already having at least some impact on inflation.  I’m just wondering 

how you and your colleagues on the FOMC have been thinking about the possibility of 

retaliatory tariffs from other countries, especially with April 2 coming up.  Was it something you 

considered during this meeting?  Thanks. 

CHAIR POWELL.  So, since the very beginning, we’ve had kind of a placeholder—the 

staff has a placeholder of—range of—really a range of possible outcomes from tariffs, and from 

trade policy generally.  And they generally assume full retaliation in those.  And so that’s, that’s 

kind of baked into the numbers.  What happens—it will be complicated, and there will be some 

retaliation and some not and, and all that, but, ultimately, they’re trying to, with the placeholder, 

give us a broad sense of what this might look like.  This—when we know—when we actually 

know the specifics, we’ll be able to, to have still uncertain but, you know, better-informed 

forecasts.  So, so, yes, that’s in there. 

MICHELLE SMITH.  Last question goes to Jean. 

Page 26 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

JEAN YUNG.  Hi, Chair Powell.  Jean Yung with MNI Market News.  Had a couple 

questions on the balance sheet change that you made.  So the minutes had initially described 

your discussion on slowing QT as temporary, until the debt ceiling is resolved, but it—from what 

you said earlier, doesn’t sound like there’s a desire to kind of regain the pace of QT that we have 

at the moment after the, the debt ceiling is resolved.  Is that the case?  

CHAIR POWELL.  Yeah, so we, we looked at pausing, and we looked at, at slowing, 

and, really, people came together very strongly behind slowing, not pausing, for a variety of 

reasons.  And so people really came to be, you know, pretty strongly in favor of, of this move.  It 

slows down the path and probably lengthens it—you know, doubles it, effectively, by slowing it 

by half.  That’s, that’s—people thought that’s, that’s a good place to be.  It’ll, it’ll, you know, 

help us assure that this path is, is a smooth one as we get closer and closer to that.  So that’s how 

that came about. 

JEAN YUNG.  Well, I guess my question is more, was that meant to be a temporary 

measure during the debt ceiling episode, or—? 

CHAIR POWELL.  You know, it was—it was actually—it was the, the TGA flows—

Treasury General Account flows that got us thinking about this.  But the more we thought about 

it, we came around to this.  And, and, you know, it, it is—yes, it was provoked.  The original 

discussion was provoked by that.  But I think what we came up with, though, was broader than 

that and different than it.  It does address that issue, but it really is also—it fits in really nicely 

with our principles and our plans, and the things we’ve done before, and the things we’ve said 

we would do.  So that’s why I—you know, pretty, pretty strong support.  I’d just say it’s, it’s 

nothing to do with monetary policy, nothing to do with the size of the balance sheet.  It’s just 

kind of a commonsense adjustment as you get closer and closer.  Let’s slow down a little bit 

Page 27 of 28 

 
 
 
 
March 19, 2025 

  Chair Powell’s Press Conference 

FINAL 

again.  And, that way, we’ll be more and more confident that we’re getting where we need to get.  

You can take your time getting there.  You know, we’re shrinking the balance sheet every 

month, and we think that’s—we think it was a good play and, as I mentioned, well supported. 

Thanks very much. 

Page 28 of 28