SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GHkkYKb4rco
CHANNEL: Federal Reserve

Kind: captions
Language: en
Good afternoon.
My colleagues and I remain squarely
focused on achieving our dual mandate
goals of maximum employment and stable
prices for the benefit of the American
people.
The US economy has been expanding at a
solid pace. While job gains have
remained low, the unemployment rate has
been little changed in recent months and
inflation remains somewhat elevated.
Today, the FOMC decided to leave our
policy rate unchanged.
We see the current stance of monetary
policy as appropriate to promote
progress toward our maximum employment
and 2% inflation goals.
The implications of developments in the
Middle East for the US economy are
uncertain.
We will remain attentive to risks to
both sides of our dual mandate. And I'll
have more to say about monetary policy
after briefly reviewing economic
developments.
Available indicators suggest that
economic activity has been expanding at
a solid pace. Consumer spending has been
resilient and business fixed investment
has continued to expand.
In contrast, activity in the housing
sector has remained weak.
In our summary of economic projections,
the median participant projects that
real GDP will rise 2.4% 4% this year and
2.3% next year, somewhat stronger than
projected in December.
In the labor market, the unemployment
rate was 4.4% in February and has
changed little since late last summer.
Job gains have remained low. A good part
of the slowing in the pace of job growth
over the past year reflects a decline in
the growth of the labor force due to
lower immigration and labor force
participation.
Though labor demand has clearly softened
as well,
other indicators, including job
openings, layoffs, hiring, and nominal
wage growth generally show little change
in recent months.
In our SEP, the median projection of the
unemployment rate is 4.4% at the end of
this year and edges down thereafter.
Inflation has eased significantly from
its highs in mid 2022, but remains
somewhat elevated relative to our 2%
longer run goal. Estimates based on the
consumer price index and other data
indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.8%
over the 12 months ending in February
and that excluding the volatile food and
energy categories, core PCE prices rose
3.0%.
These elevated readings largely reflect
inflation in the goods sector, which has
been boosted by the effects of tariffs.
Near-term measures of inflation
expectations have risen in recent weeks,
likely reflecting the substantial rise
in oil prices caused by the supply
disruptions in the Middle East.
Most measures of longerterm expectations
remain consistent with our 2% inflation
goal.
The median projection in the S&amp;P for
total PCE inflation this year is 2.7%
and 2.2% next year, a bit higher than
Our monetary policy actions are guided
by our dual mandate to promote maximum
employment and stable prices for the
American people. At today's meeting, the
committee decided to maintain the target
range for the federal funds rate at 3
and a half to 3 and 3/4%.
From last September through December, we
lowered our policy rate 3/4 of a
percentage point, bringing it within a
range of plausible estimates of neutral.
This normalization of our policy stance
should continue to help stabilize the
labor market while allowing inflation to
resume its downward trend toward 2%.
But the implications of events in the
uncertain. In the near term, higher
energy prices will push up overall
inflation, but it is too soon to know
the scope and duration of the potential
effects on the economy. We will continue
to monitor the risks to both sides of
our mandate. We are well positioned to
determine the extent and timing of
additional adjustments to our policy
rate based on the incoming data, the
evolving outlook, and the balance of
risks.
In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down
their individual assessments of an
appropriate path of the federal funds
rate under what each participant judges
to be the most likely scenario for the
economy.
The median participant projects that the
appropriate level of the federal funds
rate will be 3.4% at the end of this
year and 3.1% at the end of next year,
unchanged from December.
As is always the case, these individual
forecasts are subject to uncertainty and
they are not a committee plan or
decision.
Monetary policy is not on a preset
course and will make our decisions on a
meeting by meeting basis.
To conclude, the Fed has been assigned
two goals for monetary policy. Maximum
employment and stable prices. We remain
committed to supporting maximum
employment, bringing inflation
sustainably to our 2% goal, and keeping
longerterm inflation expectations well
anchored.
Our success in delivering on these goals
matters to all Americans. We at the Fed
will continue to do to do our jobs with
objectivity, integrity, and a deep
commitment to serve the American people.
Thank you, and I look forward to your
questions.
Colby,
&gt;&gt; thank you. Colobby Smith of the New York
Times. There's been some debate about
whether the Fed should look through the
inflation that will come from higher oil
prices stemming from the Middle East
conflict. Is that the right approach at
this juncture? And to what extent does
the fact that inflation has been above
target for roughly five years now
influence the committee's thinking
around this?
So, uh, first let me say we're well
aware of, um, uh, the performance of
inflation over the last few years and
how a series of shocks have have
interrupted progress that we've made
over time and that happened most
recently with tariffs and then and now
there will be some effects on inflation
coming forward. Um the the thing that's
really important that we see this year
is progress uh on inflation through a
reduction in goods inflation as the
one-time effects on prices of tariffs go
through the system, go through the
economy. That's the main thing we're
looking for going into this exercise.
And we need to be seeing that uh to you
know to sort of understand that we
actually are making progress because on
net we didn't make progress. And if you
look at total inflation, sorry, total
core inflation, it's about 3%. And some
big chunk of that between a half and 3/4
is actually tariffs. So we're looking
for progress on that. The question of
whether we look through uh the energy
inflation doesn't really arise until we
have kind of checked that box. It of
course is kind of standard learning that
you look through energy shocks, but
that's always been dependent on on uh
inflation expectations remaining well
anchored. And I think now it's also
dependent on on what you mentioned which
is that broader context of of 5 years
now of inflation above target. We have
to keep all of those things in mind and
the question of looking through when it
does arise will be one to approach not
lightly but you know in in the context
that you mentioned.
&gt;&gt; And just on the SEP, can you help us
make sense of why there is still a bias
to cut from most officials this year
despite the upward revision to headline
and core inflation and the essentially
unchanged forecast for growth in
unemployment. I'm just curious kind of
what what's the genesis behind the need
what's the need for the cut?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So, you know, there are 19 people
and so 19 reasons, 19 individual
submissions, you know, but but and if
you notice, um the median didn't change,
but there was actually some movement
toward a meaningful amount of movement
toward toward fewer cuts by by people.
So, four or five people went from two to
one, let's say, two cuts to one cut. Um
and each person has individual uh you
know stories behind behind what they
want to do but essentially it is that
you know the the the the forecast is
that we will be making progress on
inflation. Not as much as we had hoped
but some progress on inflation. It
should come as we start to see in the
middle of the year uh progress on on
tariffs you know going through once and
then tariff inflation coming down.
That's we should be seeing that and you
know the the rate forecast is
conditional on the performance of the
economy. So if we don't see that
progress then you won't see the rate cut
&gt;&gt; uh Howard.
&gt;&gt; Uh thank you Howard Schneider with
Reuters. Just to follow up a little bit
and to be clear, um, is the higher
inflation pencled in here for 2026
solely the result of the oil shock or or
or something else?
&gt;&gt; So, that's going to be part of it. Uh,
but you know, that wouldn't be most of
core, right? So, the oil shock for sure
shows up here. Some of that will be in
core as well. But yes, but no, there
there's also just just the the the
feeling that we haven't seen um you know
the progress that we had hoped for on
core goods uh and on on tariffs and on
the rest of it. You know, we've we've so
for whatever reason people did write up
their inflation forecast that will
certainly be tied to events in the
Middle East and the price of oil, but
it's also I think a reflection of of um
the slow progress we've seen on on
tariffs, which we believe we will see.
It's just a question of how long it
takes for them to get all the way
through the economy and it takes it just
takes some time.
&gt;&gt; Right. And is the is the lack of change
in the seps again just to explicate this
a little bit more due to the expectation
that the oil portion of this will pass
through or more out of concern that
there is a potential blow uh to
consumption and growth coming in the
form of wealth effects with the stock
market down in the form of gas prices
you know uh uh diverting spending from
other parts of the economy. Um,
&gt;&gt; so I I on the I didn't get the second
part of your
&gt;&gt; question that well that that consumers
are going to be potentially diverting
money to gasoline. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; From other parts of the economy, there
could be a growth shock uh or a
redistribution of spending there that
can hit consumption wealth effects as
well. I guess I'm wondering are you not
is the rate forecast not changing
because you think the oil shock is going
to be temporary or because you want to
be sure your position in case growth
starts to slow? So, and the thing I
really want to emphasize is that nobody
knows. You know, the economics effect
could be bigger, they could be smaller,
they could be much smaller or much
bigger. We just don't know. So, people
are writing down something that seems to
make sense to them, but have no
conviction that that you to your point,
if we have high uh, you know, if we have
a long period of much higher gas prices,
that's going to weigh on consumption.
That'll weigh on disposable personal
income and it'll weigh on consumption.
But we don't know if that's going to
happen. It something quite different
than that. we might have much lower than
expected pass through. So people write
down, you know, this is one of those
SCPs where a number of people mentioned
if we were ever going to skip an SCP,
this would be a good one because we just
don't know. So I I wouldn't say there's
a a conviction that this is going to go
through quickly or not quickly. It just
you got to write something down and this
is something that is uh that people
wrote down. Uh and so and you know, we
don't debate how long how do you do
that? we wouldn't be able to debate what
the length of or or size of these
effects would be. We just have to kind
of make an individual statement. And and
you also, you know, what you've written
down before will be you'll be reluctant
to move too far away from that just
because you don't know. It's so unclear
what the direction from this particular
end will be. Meanwhile, the economy has
the growth has been solid. um and
inflation that the overshoot is mainly
from from the goods and tariffs and you
know the labor market uh is um the
unemployment rate of course is little
changed since September. Um you have
very very low break even rate apparently
for new jobs with little growth in
either demand or supply but the US
economy is doing you know pretty well
it's just we don't know what the effects
of this will be and really no one does.
Steve.
Uh,
&gt;&gt; Mr. Chair, in the past the staff has
suggested that um higher oil prices um
they have a hit to consumption which how
was talking about but that's somewhat
offset by increases to domestic
production. Wonder if you could talk
about that dynamic especially to the
extent that how much US production is is
happening right now.
So the first thing is there is you know
the original thinking the the
long-standing thinking put it that way
is that you do look through energy
shocks but as I mentioned that's
condition on inflation expectations and
that kind of thing. So sorry your
question was
&gt;&gt; the what the staff is saying about and
has said in the past about
&gt;&gt; so there'll be an offset
&gt;&gt; offsets. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So that's that's true. Uh you know we
have um we're a net exporter of energy
right? So any any effects on employment
and economic activity and spending would
be offset to some extent by the fact
that our our oil companies will be more
profitable and they may even do more
drilling. If you ask oil companies about
doing more drilling though, they're
going to want to see, you know, a a
consistent rate rise in oil prices from
where they were before the buildup for
the war. Uh and they're and they're
going to want to believe that that's
going to be persistent for a fair fairly
long time. So they're they're not
sitting there waiting for oil to go over
$70, you know, a barrel and then they're
going to start drilling or whatever.
They're going to they're going to make a
a reasoned careful judgment that we're
going to have higher oil prices for an
extended period of time, meaningfully
higher. So you don't I wouldn't say
there's much of that happening. Not not
much will be happening now, but some of
that could happen over time if you see
that. But um so the you know the net of
the net of it would the net of of the
oil shock will still be some downward
pressure on spending and employment and
and upward pressure on inflation of
course.
&gt;&gt; And if I could just follow up on on
Kobe's question, the how much do you
worry that having looked through tariff
inflation and tar inflation running
above target and looking through the oil
price shock would undermine the
credibility of your commitment to the 2%
target. you know, we we have to do our
analysis and and you know, think these
things through carefully, but of course
that's on everyone's mind. You know,
we're well aware of of the history and
uh but you don't want to overreact to
that. You know, you want to make the
best judgment you can based on on the
facts. We're not I don't think we're
going to let it color our decision-
making more than is appropriate. It's
it's more the thought that it's been 5
years and we've actually had, you know,
we had the tariff shock, we had the
pandemic uh and and now we have an
energy shock of some size and duration.
We don't know what that's going to be
actually. And you know, it's one of
those things where it's it's it's a
repeated set of things and you you worry
that that's the kind of thing that can
um you know, can cause trouble for
inflation expectations and and and so we
worry a lot about that and we're you
know we are very strongly committed to
uh to doing what it takes to to keep
inflation expectations anchored at 2%.
And you know I I think it's important
that we uh that we do that. Very
important.
Nick
&gt;&gt; Nick Timmeros, the Wall Street Journal.
Chairpel, you've described monetary
policy is modestly restrictive. If the
unemployment rate is roughly stable,
inflation moving sideways in the high
twos with an ongoing overshoot in
services and uh non-ousing services, not
just goods, and the economy u doing
fairly well as you as you just outlined.
What gives you confidence that inflation
returns to target over the next couple
of years?
&gt;&gt; Okay, so I I would say the the rate is
you can characterize it as in the high
end of neutral or you can car
characterize it as perhaps mildly
restrictive, even modestly restrictive.
No one knows for sure, but it's in that
range where it's somewhere around the
borderline between restrictive and not.
Um, remember that that a big part of the
disinflation we're looking for is just
the runoff of when when tariffs are put
into place. Of course, what they do is
they raise prices to some extent to the
extent those prices are are the tariffs
are paid by consumers uh in a on a
one-time basis. And we're waiting for
that that process. It takes 8 n 10 11
months a year to go to go through the
system. And we're waiting for the
tariffs which were put in place over the
course of the middle part and later uh
later last year. We're waiting for that
to go through the system so that goods
inflation will return closer to what
it's always been. I mean it used to be
for many many years it was negative and
then uh you know in the year before
tariffs came in it was zero and it's
running at like 2% now. So and and so
that's kind of goods inflation is
running at 2%. So that's not coming from
standard Phillips curve restrictive uh
um you know restrictive policy. It's
coming from the one runoff of a one-time
thing. We also think it's important
though to keep policy either mildly
restrictive or you know close to that
but not too restrictive because of the
weakness in the in the the downside risk
in the labor market. We are balancing
these two goals in a situation where the
risks to the labor market are to the
downside which would call for lower
rates and the risks to inflation are to
the upside which would call for higher
rates or not cutting anyway. So we're in
a difficult situation and we feel like
we're that our framework calls on us to
balance the risks and we feel like where
we are now which is kind of on that
borderline the higher borderline of of
restrictive versus uh uh not
restrictive. We feel like that's the
right place to be.
&gt;&gt; Can I ask about corn on housing services
though? Uh because there are some people
who think that it hasn't come down very
much if at all over the past year. If if
wage growth has come down, if the labor
market has loosened, why has non-housing
services inflation maybe been slower to
follow?
&gt;&gt; That's a good question. It's, you know,
it's it's frustrating. Labor non
non-housing services have they basically
moved sideways for a year. they're at
the same level and we do expect that
they will come down but you know it's
it's a bunch of idiosyncratic things but
at the same time that that is one of the
things we should be seeing because to
your point you know the labor market is
clearly not a source of inflationary
pressures and that should really matter
for non-housing services but we're not
seeing progress there so we do you know
the what we expect for next year is
continued what we want to see for this
year rather is continued progress on
housing services finally seeing that you
know uh goods inflation come back down
because the one at a time effects of
tariffs are through and then also get
some help from non-housing services.
That's what we'd like to see. But it's,
you know, it's a good question why we
didn't see much of that last year.
&gt;&gt; Edward,
&gt;&gt; thanks. Edward Lawrence with uh Fox
Business. So in December we saw
employment numbers revised down to7,000.
January revised down. February posted a
loss of 92,000. Is that is is the
employment side a far greater risk than
the inflation side because we are seeing
inflation CPI is close to 2% PCE has
ticked down overall.
&gt;&gt; You know it's really I wouldn't say that
I wouldn't say that that's clear at all
that one is more at risk than the other.
So you can you can point to the
unemployment rate being stable and you
know in a world where both supply and
demand for workers have come down very
very sharply over the course of the past
year due to immigration policy largely
um you know a ratio is going to be a
better thing to look at than job
creation for example. So and the ratio
is the unemployment rate and it's been
stable since September. So that that
that tells you that um inflation I you
know you can you can uh we're we're
we're at 3.0% core inflation 2.8% uh
headline. So we've been well above the
2% uh that that amount whatever it is uh
7.8 or our full percentage point above
2% for some time and that's a concern.
You know we need to get back down to 2%.
and uh we need to keep focused on that
even though we do now face some some new
inflation from energy. So I I I'd be
hardressed to say that one of them is
obviously more at risk than the other.
&gt;&gt; And if I may, what happens uh if there's
no Federal Reserve chairman confirmed on
May 15th, would you stay on?
&gt;&gt; So if my successor is not confirmed by
the end of my term as chair, I would
serve as chair prom until he is
confirmed. Um, that is what the law
calls for. Uh, that's what we've done on
several occasions, including involving
me, and it's what we're going to do in
this situation. Uh, and while I'm at it,
um,
on the question whether I will leave
while the investigation is ongoing, I
have no intention of leaving the board
until the investigation is well and
truly over with transparency and
finality. And I would refer you to the
statement that was in the Fed's brief
that you all have seen, and I won't have
anything more for you on that. on the
question of whether I will then continue
to serve as a governor after my term
ends and after the investigation is
over. I have not made that decision yet
and I will make that decision based on
what I think is best for the institution
and for the people we serve. Figuring
you probably were going to set the
dominoes off there
&gt;&gt; and I'm not going to have any more to
say on those issues. By the way,
&gt;&gt; thank you very much. Claire Jones from
the Financial Times. Um
people have drawn quite a few historical
parallels with the current situation.
We've seen oil price shocks in the past.
Um some people have said the first Gulf
War and the Fed's response to that where
there was a focus on the growth risks um
is the right parallel to what extent
would you agree with that and to what
extent do you think we're in a different
place today? Thank you. you know, we
it's it's really hard to say until we
see the situation, the actual situation.
Um, in some circumstances, that might be
the right uh case. In fact, for example,
if we do see the kinds of uh of
disinflationary progress that we expect
to see with due to tariffs that I
mentioned, um, I think it's hard to say
and it will depend to some extent on on
the size and duration of the effects
we're seeing on prices and and it will
depend a lot on uh what we can see in
inflation expectations.
And just one follow up if I may just on
the BLS report um that was mentioned
briefly there. It doesn't seem from the
projections or from the comments you've
made today about the unemployment rate
and focusing on that that your view on
the labor market story to a large part
being a supply side story has changed um
despite the quite negative number in
February. Would that be the right take?
And was there anyone else in the room
who thought differently and that the
February jobs report was cause for
concern?
&gt;&gt; So I think you have to take the take the
two together. You know the um in a way
the uh January report was a positive
surprise and the February report was a
negative surprise. Uh if you put them
together you get something in the
middle. And I I think you have to real
as you do I'm sure realize there were
there was a strike and there was weather
and that's about 80,000 of the negative
effect total on the February report.
Notwithstanding that so so what do you
what do you see if you take a step back
overall there are a number of indicators
that suggest a degree of stability but
the thing that I I think um good number
of people on the committee are concerned
about is just the very very low level of
job creation. If you if you adjust what
has been the trend job creation over the
past let's say six months, if you adjust
that for what we think our staff thinks
is the the overstatement due to
overounting, effectively there's zero
net job creation in the private sector.
But actually that looks like that's
about what the economy needs in terms of
of dealing with very very low
non-existent really growth in the labor
force which of course we've never had in
our in our history. So you've got a a
sort of a a zero employment growth
equilibrium. Now that's that's balance.
Okay. But uh you know I would say it it
does have a feel of downside risk and uh
it's not kind of a really comfortable
balance. So um you know we look at that
we see it we get it and I mean everybody
understands the arithmetic and that
that's you you can say the break even is
is zero but nonetheless it's um it's
something we're watching carefully and
so and and you know are concerned about
but ultimately though you can argue that
it's the a consequence of deliberate
deliberate policy which is really the
changes to immigration is that's the
biggest factor there and um but
nonetheless something we watch
carefully.
&gt;&gt; Andrew
Uh thanks Chair Powell. Um the economy's
experienced a series of supply shocks in
the last few years. Uh COVID tariffs,
two oil price shocks. Do you think that
is bad luck or is something changed in
the world that makes supply shocks more
common? And does the central bank need
to take uh start taking account of the
risk of supply shocks as more as a more
common problem?
you know, we we did go through a long
period where where the shocks were all
demand shocks and uh you know, so we've
had a lot of practice thinking about
supply shocks in the last four or five
years for sure. Uh and it's just a very
different thing and a very much more
difficult thing because it does
immediately raise the question of uh
tension between the two parts of our
mandate. But you know, has the world
changed? I mean, co CO is a one-time
thing, right?
um uh this energy supply shock is a
one-time thing. It's not it's not
because of some broad tendency or
anything, I don't think. And and you
know that the oil shock under with
Ukraine was also a consequence of uh of
military action. So I don't know that I
don't know that the uh uh the world has
changed in a way that there'll be more
supply shocks. But you know there's
people have written that that paper and
that speech a number of times. A number
of people have tried to make the case
that that is the case. And in fact, we
have seen more supply shocks in the last
5 years than we've seen in many years
before that. It's a fact.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Um uh you said last year that the
Fed was reviewing its communication
strategies including the SCP as part of
its framework review. Um whatever
happened to that and uh I have like five
follow-ups to that, but I guess you know
what what would you change about Fed
communications if you had the time?
Thanks.
&gt;&gt; What happened about that was not much.
And I'll tell you why. So, you know, we
we we we looked carefully at many
aspects of the SCP and of our
communications, and there just weren't
there weren't any ideas that had very
broad support on the committee. And you
don't you don't want to make a change to
your communications unless you have, you
know, have the committee behind that.
So, we didn't really make any changes on
that. I you know I I had hoped that they
had some things that I wanted to do but
they just they didn't attract broad
support and we'd already made all the
changes we made to the framework. That
was that was a critical thing. So we
didn't and you know I uh I wish we had
been able to do some things but you know
we didn't. So maybe the next chair will
will take a look. I'm I'm sure he will.
&gt;&gt; Mike McKe
&gt;&gt; Michael McKe from Bloomberg television
and radio. Uh the minutes show in
January some members of the committee
wanted to include a two-sided guidance
uh on policy. Was that discussed today?
And given the rise in the inflation
expectations, how much support for a
two-sided policy warning would there be?
&gt;&gt; So it did come up today. The policy that
our the possibility rather that our next
move might be an increase did come up at
the meeting as it did at the last
meeting. Um the vast majority of
participants don't see that as their
base case. And of course we don't take
things off the table. Uh but you you
correctly characterized uh you know what
was in the minutes that that several
participants indicated and something
very much like that conversation did
happen. What was your second question
there?
&gt;&gt; Oh that was just one one question there
but a followup would be uh there are a
lot of goods besides oil that are
trapped in the straight right now and a
lot of supply chains getting snarled. Uh
how much concern do you have about
whether if this becomes an inflation
problem beyond just oil whether there's
anything you can do about it or would do
about it uh given the efficacies of
monetary policy?
&gt;&gt; You know we you can you can worry about
other commodities. You can worry about
all of the ways that oil commodities oil
related commodities go into
manufacturing and that kind of thing.
The truth is it's completely out of our
hands and we just like everybody else we
have to just wait and and see what
happens and it'll be it'll come down to
how long uh you know the
current situation lasts and then what
are the effects on the on prices and
then how do consumers react and that
kind of thing. really we we I wouldn't
speculate in any way and there's really
not a lot we can do other than kind of
watch and and see
&gt;&gt; afternoon chair Powell Maria Louisa
Capuro with Bloomberg News I wanted to
ask you you said longerterm measures of
inflation expectations reflect
confidence that the Fed will get back to
its 2% goal but there are some
colleagues of yours who have pointed to
higher dispersion in household service
in business reles as well. So, and that
they take as a signal that inflation
expectations may be less sticky than in
the past. I'm wondering if there was a
discussion around that at this meeting
across a committee uh and what were the
views of what is the state of inflation
expectations and the risks of for from
higher oil and gas prices. So, at this
meeting, I mean, a number of people
mentioned and and staff briefed on
short-term expectations, having moved up
quite a lot for reasons we understand
well, but long-term expectations, you
know, you can always find one that's
troubling or some aspect of one that's
troubling. But ultimately right through
this whole period uh the overwhelming
majority of the things we look to
including markets including surveys of
you know of the public and also of um of
forecasters they they've all been pretty
solid on longer term inflation
expectations being right where they need
to be consistent with 2%. So that
continues to be the case. We didn't we
didn't have a a lot of conversation
about that. I think everyone does agree
that, you know, we'll be watching those
extremely carefully as we see the
effects of the uh of the price increases
come through from the from the conflict.
&gt;&gt; And still on on how the discussion went
across the committee. Um before coming
to this meeting, there were some members
who were like discussing the risks of uh
slow a slowdown in growth and a time at
a time of where inflation remains high.
It really doesn't seem that most members
are penciling in a slowdown in growth.
But uh has there been any discussion of
the risks of techlation at this point?
So people actually rode up their their
um growth forecast by by a tenth and I
think that's probably to do with just
growing confidence in in um productivity
&gt;&gt; um and uh but so sorry and your second
question was just um
&gt;&gt; if there have been any discussions about
the risk of stackflation station
scenario.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So as I mentioned there there is
tension between the two goals right the
up upward upward risk for inflation and
the downward risk for employment. So and
that puts us in a different situation.
You know when we use the term
stagflation I always have to point out
that that that was a 1970s term at a
time when unemployment was in double
figures and inflation was really high
and the misery index was super high. Add
them together you get the misery index.
And that's not the case right now. We
actually have unemployment really close
to longer run normal and we have
inflation that's you know one percentage
point above that. So calling that
stagflation it's not you I would reserve
the term stagflation for you know a much
more serious set of circumstances. That
is not the situation we're in. What we
have is some tension between the goals
and we're trying to manage our way
through it. It's a very difficult
situation, but it's nothing like what
they faced in in the 1970s. And that's I
reserve stagflation for that the word
for that period. Maybe that's just me.
&gt;&gt; Elizabeth,
&gt;&gt; thanks much. Elizabeth Schelsey with ABC
News. President Trump says that oil
prices and overall inflation will go
down very rapidly as soon as the war
ends. Do you agree with that?
&gt;&gt; I don't have a forecast on that. Right.
&gt;&gt; When we're thinking about the impact on
American households, you, as you know,
they've been facing these higher prices
for years. They've seen an almost $1
increase in gas. How worried are you
about households, especially lower
income families, being able to afford
those price hikes? And should people be
bracing for higher costs, including for
food? Now,
&gt;&gt; we just we don't know how big these
effects are going to be, and I don't I
don't want to characterize them in any
way. Of course, people are already
seeing gas prices. Gas prices are up
almost a dollar a gallon. Um, we we we
hope that isn't for a long period of
time and of course people will feel
that, but I I don't want to speculate
about what that might mean because
honestly that would sound like I have
some idea of what's actually going to
happen and I don't think anybody really
does. We're going to see how this works
out and uh I just would leave it at
that.
&gt;&gt; Victoria,
&gt;&gt; hi Victoria Guido with Politico. Um, I
just wanted to ask for purposes of the
next meeting, uh, you know, the how the
Middle East war develops between now and
then, how are you thinking about what
might guide action at your next meeting?
I mean, if if we have oil prices, you
know, above $100 a barrel the entire
time until the next meeting, is that
going to change your wait and see
stance? Like, what what would lead you
all to move or is uh are you on hold
pretty indefinitely? We'll have to wait
and see. Um I mean, you know, um we
always say we're going to learn more by
the next meeting and usually we do, but
in this case, we're going to learn a lot
because we're going to learn six weeks
to the day till the next meeting. And um
you know, we're going to see whether the
what happens is it's going to be very
important for the way the economy looks
and the way the outlook uh the way the
outlook evolves with what happens in the
Middle East. That's going to be a big
factor and we'll know that then. I don't
know how it's going to affect our
thinking. I really don't. And you know,
we did we did talk about alternative
scenarios a little bit, but it's just I
wouldn't bring that in here. It's it's
very uncertain and I I just want to just
remember that we don't know and we
shouldn't assume it's going to be one
thing or another. We're going to see.
&gt;&gt; So, is it is it a matter of you don't
know how the situation itself is going
to evolve or even if things remain as
they are, the economy could still remain
relatively durable in in face of them?
Yeah, that's true too. No, I mean the US
economy has has just, you know, made it
it's been strong through a whole bunch
of challenges. I mean, if you go back go
back to 2023 when we raised rates a lot
in 22 and 23 and close to 100% of
economists called for a recession, which
didn't happen. In fact, 2023 was a
really strong year. So, uh, I the US
economy has has really been just
just, um, doing pretty well through a
lot of significant challenges over the
past few years. It's been amazing to
see. And I again, I I don't I don't know
what's going to happen in the next
intermedating cycle, and I don't don't
know what's going to happen in the
Middle East. I wouldn't want to
speculate.
&gt;&gt; Hi, Chair Pal. Thanks for taking our
questions. Um, what makes you so certain
that tariff related price increases will
be a one-time effect? I don't think
we've seen you since the Supreme Court
tariff decision. Um, and it's pretty
clear that none of us know what the
extent of the tariff shock will be as
the administration moves to replace some
of the tariffs that were overturned. So,
I suppose I'm curious, what would make
you question this certainty that tariffs
are going to be a one-time price effect?
Well, I I I would not at all use the
word certain about my my views on that.
I'm not I'm not certain. I'm uncertain.
But just if you think about what it is,
you're it's a it's a one-time increase
in the price of a good, right? And what
inflation is is, you know, ongoing
increases in prices this year, next
year, the year after. That's what
inflation is. It's not a one-time price
increase. There's a very very big
difference. The public doesn't really
focus on that, but that's what that's
the difference. And tariffs should be a,
you know, in theory, unless they cause
people to start expecting still more
tariffs the next year and still more
tariffs the next year, they should be a
classic one-time thing. People say the
same thing traditionally about an energy
price spike because traditionally prices
go up and they come back down and by the
time monetary policy would react, you
know, you would uh it would be over. So,
I don't have tons of confidence on that.
I mean, I think that the theory is
probably right. Um but as usual the the
time it takes to get all the way through
the economy is just very uncertain and
we you know we found that coming out of
co that the inflation did go away and
largely for the reasons we thought it
would but it took two years longer than
we thought you know and um so I I think
we have to be humble about knowing how
long it will take for tariffs to go all
the way through the economy and so what
we've been doing as our staff's been
doing it's very interesting they you
know they started off with just an
estimate because there wasn't a real
history and then they've built based on
the history that they're seeing of
tariffs coming through into prices. Um
they've now they can now have an arc and
for all the tariffs they can say well
you know so we have I think a slight
slightly more confidence that we will
see tariff inflation coming down not
prices but you won't see further
increases and we should start seeing
that uh more and more in the middle
parts of the year. We do expect that.
Um, now you're also right though that
the the level of um of tariffs came down
fairly meaningfully in the wake of the
uh uh in the wake of the court decision,
but but the administration has said
they're going to they're going to move
the they're going to get that rate right
back up to where it was. So, and we we
you know, we we assume that they'll do
that over time. So, um that's how we
think about it.
&gt;&gt; Thank you,
&gt;&gt; Chris.
&gt;&gt; Hi. Uh thank you. Uh Chris Ruebert at
Associated Press. I wanted you talked
about the shortcomings of the SCP in
this environment. I wanted to ask about
or throw in an additional thing which is
the fact that it's happening before
transition. Is there still some value
perhaps in the public knowing what other
Fed officials are thinking uh the ones
who will stay on for the rest of the
year and beyond? And does that even
handicap your successor in any way?
Well, just in terms of having a whole
committee expressing its views,
is that something that locks them in for
the rest of the year?
&gt;&gt; No, no, no. We never The SCP is never uh
people are more than happy to change
their their SCP dots. They're no way
bound by them. You know, it's it's it's
your opinion at a moment in time, which
can change based on events, you know,
sometimes very quickly. Um, so it
doesn't it never locks people in. you
know, people are more than happy to be
proven wrong in either direction. And uh
so I I I just think we do it and you
know, we this was I mentioned this was a
time when it's very hard to do it.
During the pandemic, we actually took
one meeting off, I think. And but you
know, we don't we don't like to do that
just because it's hard to do. We should
just keep doing it. But I just would say
for this one though, I think it's it's
more than even more than usual good to
take it take the forecast with a grain
of salt because subject to just very
high levels of uncertainty.
&gt;&gt; Brian,
&gt;&gt; hi Chel. Uh Brian Chung with NBC News.
Uh so you mentioned at the beginning of
this conversation that you're well aware
of the history of inflation running
above target. It seems like that might
be what's underpinning the affordability
problem that we're hearing a lot about
uh on Main Street. Are there any signs
to you that that's impacting the
psychology of the consumer, especially
given that they're a big driver of
overall economic activity? I you know
I'm not sure what's what that's all
about but what I'll tell you what I
think and what we see in surveys and
that is you know people there were big
price increases
um all around the world by the way
everywhere in in countries like the
United States had basically the same
kind of thing was global inflation
coming out of the pandemic and
everywhere people are feeling like they
you know real wages have been going up
in the United States now for three years
roughly um but people are not feeling
like they're not feeling good about it
yet. And it will take some years of
positive real real earning gains for
people to feel good again, we think. But
you're right, we uh but when you talk to
people, they're they they do feel
squeezed. And you know, there there are
areas where where uh prices are still
going up like insurance, various
different kinds of insurance are getting
more more and more expensive. And that's
just catching up really from
inflationary pressures that take a while
to get to the price into the price. So
we take it very seriously. We don't
dismiss it at all. It's a very real
thing from the standpoint of what um of
what people are experiencing and and you
know what it does for us is you know
makes us even more committed if that's
possible to getting inflation back to 2%
on a sustained basis. How does the Fed's
independence play into the ability to
address affordability?
&gt;&gt; Well, independence is what allows us to
do our jobs and um you know, stable
prices is half of our mandate. It's one
of our two mandates. Maximum employment
being employment being the other. I mean
every look at every advanced economy
that looks anything like the United
States anywhere in the world in a market
economy in a democracy and you'll see
you know pretty much uh Fed central bank
independence that looks a lot like in
some cases stronger than what we have
but it's critical that that we have that
so that we can do the things when we
need to do them to preserve price
stability and it just it's it's an
accepted standard practice and I think
has a lot of report certainly in
Congress which is where where our
oversight is is in Congress and you see
that among Democrats and Republicans in
the House and the Senate.
&gt;&gt; Richard
Eso.
&gt;&gt; Hi Chair Pal. Richard Escobido CBS News.
Thanks for doing this. Um I two
questions. One, how high would oil
prices and broader inflation have to go
and for how long for the committee to
consider hiking rates? Uh and then
secondly, diesel prices are rising
faster than gas prices. How concerned
are you that the increase in diesel
might drive up food and goods prices and
lead to broader inflation?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I I'm not going to give you an
example example or specific answer on
the first question. You know, we we
we're prepared to do what needs to be
done, but I wouldn't want to hypothesize
about what that what that might be. You
know, in terms of diesel prices, um so
your question there is are we concerned
about it? I mean,
&gt;&gt; how concerned and and whether or not it
will drive up, you know, the cost of
food and and other goods that really
rely on it to make
&gt;&gt; it's a more general concern than that.
It's diesel prices because that's that's
transportation of food and things like
that. There just lots of ways that that
oil and derivatives of oil get into the
production and transportation of many
many things. So, and those you big
effects on in headline inflation, but
things like that leak into core as well.
and the the um the effects may not be as
big, but they're quite real and they're
they're material. So, we we are aware of
that and we're watching it, but you
know, we're right at the beginning of
this and we don't know how big it you
just don't know how big this will be and
how long it lasts. You know, it may or
may not be something that really makes a
big imprint on the US economy. We're
just going to have to wait and see.
&gt;&gt; Archie. For the last question,
&gt;&gt; thanks very much. just to sort of stare
into the future for a little bit. I was
looking at the longer run bits of the
SEP and noticed that the growth estimate
had been revised up a good chunk from
from 1.8 to two and the uh the kind of
long-term Fed funds rate as well. It' be
great just to hear is that is that AI
productivity or or what's going on there
exactly?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I well I think it's it's just
productivity. you know, we actually
started seeing meaningfully higher
productivity some years ago, four four
years ago, 5 years ago. And and uh and
that's not because of, you know,
generative AI. It's it may we we'll
never we won't know for years what it's
really due to, but it could be due to
the kind of things that people did
during the pandemic to economize and and
somehow become more productive because
there was a, you know, an incredible
labor shortage. But um and I you know I
think economic forecasters are very
skeptical of of uh
periods of high productivity because
they're so rare and they're often
revised away and for many to I never
thought I'd see this many years of
really high productivity and by the way
expected to continue and we haven't
really started to see the the effects of
of generative AI and that should that
should certainly contribute to that. So
it's quite unusual and uh and it's you
know this is the higher productivity is
the thing that allows incomes to rise
over time and so it's a great thing. Was
that your question?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. No, I was just curious what lay
behind that and and just briefly to on
on that as well to finish up you hear
the argument a lot this is a sort of
disinflationary story and if you believe
that productivity thing that should also
weigh down on inflation over time maybe
then kind of pull down where where rates
end up. Do you do you kind of agree with
that line of thinking or do you think
that's not how you should think about
whether rates?
&gt;&gt; I I think you have to be cautious about
that in particular if you're talking
about AI about generative AI. So
remember in the short term what's
happening is we're building data centers
everywhere and that's actually putting
pressure on on um all kinds of goods and
services that go into building these
things. So that's actually probably
pushing inflation up at the margin. Um,
in addition, uh, um, it it probably
raises the neutral rate. So, in in the
in the near term, you're looking at
you're not looking at something that
would immediately call for lower rates
or that would be lowering inflation.
Over time though sure it's a it can be a
if it's ext it's expanding potential
output which is what productivity higher
productivity does then it actually can
be but I think it's an empirical
question because it's really what is the
demand demand growing faster or slower
than the supply side and I I think we
just don't know that that answer Xanti
going in. Uh we'll just have to wait and
see. Thank you very much.