SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q5Q7h0HB5JQ
CHANNEL: Federal Reserve

Kind: captions
Language: en
Good afternoon. [clears throat]
Uh my colleagues and I remain squarely
focused on achieving our dualmandate
goals of maximum employment and stable
prices for the benefit of the American
people. The US economy expanded at a
solid pace last year and is coming into
2026 on a firm footing.
While job gains have remained low, the
unemployment rate has shown some signs
of stabilization and inflation remains
somewhat elevated.
In support of our goals, today the
Federal Open Market Committee decided to
leave our policy rate unchanged.
Having lowered our policy rate by 75
basis points over the course of our
previous three meetings, we see the
current stance of monetary policy as
appropriate to promote progress toward
both our maximum employment and 2%
inflation goals. I will have more to say
about monetary policy after briefly
reviewing economic developments.
Available indicators suggest that
economic activity has been expanding at
a solid pace. Consumer spending has been
resilient and business fixed investment
has continued to expand.
In contrast, activity in the housing
sector has remained weak.
The temporary shutdown of the federal
government likely weighed on economic
activity last quarter, but these effects
should be reversed as the reopening
boosts growth this quarter.
In the labor market, indicators suggest
that conditions may be stabilizing after
a period of gradual softening. The
unemployment rate was 4.4% in December
and has changed little in recent months.
Job gains have remained low. Total
non-farm payrolls declined at an average
pace of 22,000 per month over the last
three months. Excluding government
employment, private payrolls rose at an
average pace of 29,000 per month.
A good part of the slowing in the pace
of job growth over the past year
reflects a decline in the growth of the
labor force due to lower immigration and
labor force participation. Though labor
demand has clearly softened as well.
Other indicators including openings,
layoffs, hiring, and nominal wage growth
show little change in recent months.
Inflation has eased significantly from
its highs in mid 2022, but remains
somewhat elevated relative to our 2%
longerrun goal.
Estimates based on the consumer price
index indicate that total PCE prices
rose 2.9% over the 12 months ending in
December and that excluding the volatile
food and energy categories, core PCE
prices rose 3.0%.
These elevated readings largely reflect
inflation in the goods sector which has
been boosted by the effects of tariffs.
In contrast, disinflation appears to be
continuing in the services sector.
Near-term measures of inflation
expectations have declined from last
year's peaks as reflected in both market
and surveybased measures.
Most measures of longerterm expectations
remain consistent with our 2% inflation
goal.
Our monetary policy actions are guided
by our dual mandate to promote maximum
employment and stable prices for the
American people. At today's meeting, the
committee decided to maintain the target
range for the federal funds rate at 3
and a half to 3 and 3/4%.
Since last September, we've lowered our
policy rate 75 basis points or 3/4 of a
percentage point, bringing it within a
range of plausible estimates of neutral.
This normalization of our policy stance
should help stabilize the labor market
while allowing inflation to resume its
downward trend toward 2%. Once the
effects of tariff increases have passed
through,
we are well positioned to determine the
extent and timing of additional
adjustments to our policy rate based on
the incoming data, the evolving outlook,
and the balance of risks.
Monetary policy is not on a preset
course and we will make our decisions on
a meetingby-meating basis.
To conclude, the Fed has been assigned
two goals for monetary policy. Maximum
employment and stable prices. We remain
committed to supporting maximum
employment, bringing inflation
sustainably to our 2% goal, and keeping
longerterm inflation expectations well
anchored. Our success in delivering on
these goals matters to all Americans. We
at the Fed will continue to do our jobs
with objectivity, integrity, and a deep
commitment to serve the American people.
Thank you. I look forward to your
questions.
&gt;&gt; Hi,
Chris Rugabber at Associated Press.
Thank you. Um
I wanted to ask that you know you
attended the Supreme Court uh hearing
last week on the Lisa Cook case uh and
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
criticized that as political. Can you
say why you attended and uh what you
would say in response to the secretary's
criticism?
&gt;&gt; So let me start with I I [clears throat]
don't respond to comments by other
officials whoever they may be. It's just
uh not appropriate to do that. I will
tell you why I attended. Um, I would say
that that case is perhaps the most
important legal case in the Fed's
113-year history. And I, as I thought
about it, I thought uh it would might be
hard to explain why I didn't attend. Uh,
in addition, um, Paul Vulkar went to a
Supreme Court case famously in I guess
1985 or so. So, it's precedented and,
uh, I thought it was an appropriate
thing and I did it.
&gt;&gt; Great. And then just quickly follow on
uh the job market. Uh the you mentioned
last month that the household survey
might be distorted. Um and you
[clears throat] also mentioned the
potential for o uh overounting jobs uh
which would suggest that we're still in
a negative hiring pace. Um so do you see
that drop in the unemployment rate as
solid and
uh I'm just what's the basis for saying
that things have stabilized? Thank you.
So yeah, really two questions. One is so
we're we're getting through the the
distortions in the data from the
shutdown, what however big they were in
November, they're smaller in December.
So we're getting to a place where
they're no longer material. They're
still there, but it's a tweak here and
there. Um the reason why we why we
changed the uh statement, let me pull it
out. um uh was was simply uh it's it
used to say that judges that downside
risks to employment rose in recent
months. So we saw you know data coming
in which suggests some signs of
stabilization. I wouldn't go too far
with that but some signs of
stabilization. There also some signs of
continued cooling and uh so we thought
that was no longer an accurate
description of the data. In addition,
the outlook for economic activity has
improved, clearly improved since the
last meeting, and that should matter for
for labor demand and for employment over
time. So, for those two reasons, we
thought we would take that language out
of the statement.
&gt;&gt; Nick
Timos, the Wall Street Journal. Uh, Cher
Pal, you've generally avoided engaging
with political controversies directly
and the video statement on January 11th
was a departure. What made this
different and are you concerned it could
draw the institution further into
political debates? So, today on uh uh
I'm simply going to refer you to the
statement that I made on January 11. I'm
not going to expand on it or repeat it.
So, uh, I'm just not going to this is
really about the press conference and
and and, uh, the economy and what we did
today, but and some ancillary areas, but
I'm not going to be getting into that.
&gt;&gt; Can you say whether the Fed has
responded to the subpoenas?
&gt;&gt; I have nothing for you on that today.
&gt;&gt; Mike,
Michael McKe from Bloomberg Radio TV.
Have you made a decision and whether you
would remain as a governor of the
Federal Reserve? And if so, would you
tell us what it is? And if not, when
might we anticipate a decision?
&gt;&gt; Uh, no. And uh I really once again have
nothing for you on that today that
either.
&gt;&gt; Uh why why would you uh want to leave at
all under the circumstances? Again,
I uh I don't want to get into that's not
something I'm there's a time and place
for these questions and and uh but not
not something I'm going to be getting
into today. Thank you.
&gt;&gt; Thank you. Um Claire Jones, Financial
Times. Thanks a lot for for taking my
questions. Um, in another one that
might, you know,
lead to a similar answer, um,
&gt;&gt; we've seen quite big movements in the
dollar over recent days. What do you
think is driving the US currency lower
and have you been at all concerned just
by the extent of the volatility we've
seen this week? Thank you.
&gt;&gt; So, Claire, as you probably know, you
know, we we don't comment on the dollar
really. the administration, especially
the Treasury Department, has the job of
oversight over over the the currency and
so and exchange rates and all that. We
don't comment on that. It's not our not
our role. Um, so I have nothing for you.
&gt;&gt; But I mean, what's your view on the
market movements? I mean, what do you
think behind them? Is it asset managers
diversifying? Is it
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I just don't, you know, we don't
we don't talk about the dollar. We don't
talk about what moves it around. Um, I
just it's just not appropriate for us to
do so. really the Treasury Department
has that. It's their their role, their
Bailey wick, and and we stay off it. We
do monetary policy and some other
things, but we don't we don't comment on
the dollar. Sorry,
&gt;&gt; Neil.
&gt;&gt; Uh, hi Chair Pal, Neil Irwin with Axios.
Um, obviously no SCP in this meeting,
but in light of the slight firming up of
the language around growth in the labor
market and the statement, should we
assume that the timeline for any further
rate cuts is pushed back compared to
what people might have thought in
December?
Well, first of all, if if you look at
the incoming data since the last
meeting, um clear improvement in the
outlook for growth. The the data have
come in and sentiment, the the beige
book, everything comes in suggesting
that this year starts off on a on a
solid footing for for growth. Uh
inflation performed about as expected
and as I mentioned, some of the labor
market data came in suggesting u you
know, we're evidence of stabilization.
So it's overall a stronger forecast
really if that's your question. Um I'm
not sure I answered your question.
&gt;&gt; Uh but but in terms of uh timing or
pacing of any additional easing. So we
we haven't made um you know what what we
what we'd say about this was that after
this meeting after the three recent rate
cuts we're well positioned to address
the risks that we faith on face on both
sides of our dual mandate and we'll
continue to make our decisions meeting
by meeting uh based on the incoming data
the implications for and the
implications for and the outlook and the
balance of risks. Haven't made any
decisions about future meetings but you
know the economy is growing at a solid
pace. The unemployment rate has been
broadly stable and inflation remains
somewhat elevated. So, we'll be looking
to our goal variables and letting the
data light the way for us.
&gt;&gt; Steve
&gt;&gt; Steve Leeman, CNBC and sticking with
questions you might answer. Thank you.
Um
uh
you had previously I believe described
the current policy rate being at the
higher end of neutral and if you look at
the longer run the SCP and the longer
run rate 16 of 19 officials are actually
below there on their long run. Is the
Fed still in a process of bringing it
down towards a middle range of neutral
and what would it take to get there? So,
I the count I did was that four of the
19 were at or above that. Maybe I missed
by one, but I thought I thought it was
four. Um, but and if you look at the um
the dealer survey, it was 10 out of 58
where we're at or above. So, you're
right. It's it's it's the high higher
end of the range. What we say is it's
it's within the range of plausible
estimates. This is this is the higher
end of that range, but it's in so for
some people, they think it's it's
neutral, I think. And many of my
colleagues think it's hard to look at
the incoming data and say that policyy's
significantly restrictive at this time.
It may be it may be sort of loosely
neutral or it may be somewhat
restrictive. You know, it's in the eye
of the beholder and of course no one
knows with any precision. Um so is that
you had a followup?
&gt;&gt; I get what you're saying, but um are are
some officials have described the Fed
being in a a mode of bringing it down
eventually over time. Are you still in
that mode or is this a place to hang
out?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. No, I I I would say if you look at
the SCP from from December, you most
people had additional normalization. But
at the same time, we've done a lot of
the process of normalizing. A good piece
of it is done with 75 basis points and
before that 100. It's 175 basis points
we've cut since we began cutting in
September of 2024. So you've moved now
to, you know, 3 point Fed funds is
running just a little below 3.65%.
Um, so you've moved a good way and we
think we're well positioned here to
watch how the economy performs, look at
the data. We're not making decisions
about future meetings, but we we do
think we're well positioned after those
three cuts to to let the data speak to
us.
&gt;&gt; Thank you, Chair Pal. Marquee from
Bloomberg News. uh to what extent did
the did the committee discuss the
possibility of cutting at this meeting
or in March? And how are you all
thinking about the conditions that would
merit another rate cut? Is there broad
agreement on the on the committee about
what it would take?
&gt;&gt; So there was broad support on the
committee for holding today broad I
would say including among non- voters.
So that's where that was. Of course,
some people did want to cut and and and
dissented, but committee pretty broadly
for for for holding today. Um, we're not
trying to articulate, you know, a test
for what for when to next cut or whether
to cut at the next meeting. Um, you
know, what we're saying is we're well
positioned uh as we make decisions
meeting by meeting, looking at the
incoming data, evolving outlook and all
that. And um you know we're in a
position where um you know we have to we
still have some tension between
employment and inflation but it's less
than it was. I think that the upside
risks to inflation and the downside
risks risks have probably both
diminished a bit. So u you know we'll be
looking at that. It's about how you
weigh uh the risks to the two goals and
and and how big those and quantify them.
And so there are different views on the
committee and you know we'll find our
way forward as the data evolve.
Edward.
&gt;&gt; Thank you. Uh, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Edward Lawrence from uh, Fox Business.
Has the effects of tariffs um already
moved through the economy on prices?
A lot of it has. So, basically, uh,
there are many different estimates and
and they're all highly uncertain, but
most of the overrun
uh, in goods prices is from tariffs. And
that's actually good news because if it
weren't from tariffs, it might mean it's
from demand and and you know that's
that's a harder problem to solve. We we
do think tariffs are likely to move
through and be a one-time price
increase. So most of the overshoot if
you if you were to take that out, you'd
get and you would I mean inflation core
PC inflation is running just a bit above
2% x the effects of tariffs on goods.
And the the other good news is if you
look away from goods and look at
services, you do see ongoing
disinflation in in all the categories of
services. So that's a healthy
development. So that's what's going on.
The expectation is that we will see uh
the effects of um of tariffs flowing
through goods prices, peaking and then
starting to come down assuming there are
no new major tariff increases that that
are begun. Uh and that's what we expect
to see over the course of this year. If
we see that, if the if we see that, that
would be something that tells us uh that
we can we can loosen policy. Also, if we
see something that suggests that the
labor market is not stabilizing, that in
fact it's the downside risks reemerge or
or the data just get worse, we'd have to
look at both of those. We have a
two-sided mandate. Oh, if I could, um if
President Trump [clears throat] does
pick a new Fed chairman before May, um
what does that look like? How would you
work with that person? And what does
that transition period look like?
&gt;&gt; I don't have anything for you on that.
Uh I you know that's will depend on on
Congress's actions and things I I can't
speculate on.
&gt;&gt; Howard
&gt;&gt; Howard Schne with Reuters. Thank you for
uh taking our questions. Um given the
changes in the statement and all you've
said so far, is it is it fair to
describe uh risks to your to both sides
of the mandate as roughly balanced right
now? And is the next move necessarily
down?
I'd say that
the the upside again the upside risks to
inflation and the downside risks to
risks to employment have diminished but
there they still exist. So there's still
some tension between the mandates.
&gt;&gt; Are they fully in balance? Uh hard to
say. Hard to say. And you know we we
again we think our policy is in a good
place. Um, I've just discussed reasons
why we might change our policy and, you
know, we'll just have to see how the
data lead us.
&gt;&gt; I'm wondering you you you a minute ago
you said you felt expectations were
consistent with your with your mandate
that the two and the 10-year break evens
have moved quite notably in the last uh
couple of weeks, I believe. Uh, is there
any concern on that front? I mean, the I
I recently looked at at all all of the
both survey and market-based short-term
inflation expectations have come way
down. You know, they they they were in a
good place at the beginning of last
year. They spiked around Liberation Day,
and now they fully retraced in the last
few months. So, that's very comforting.
And the longer term inflation
expectations have remained in places
that are, you know, very consistent with
2% inflation over time. So expectations
are have been solid and they they
reflect, you know, confidence in in the
return to 2% inflation.
&gt;&gt; Andrew,
&gt;&gt; apologies [clears throat] if this is a
little bit repetitive, but in the past
you've said that the reason you cut
rates was that the risk to the labor
market was greater than the risk to the
inflation side. Is that still true?
&gt;&gt; You know, we haven't made You're right.
We we uh we saw the labor market
weakening and we acted and I think
that's the appropriate thing to do. We
have you know we will always act to to
address what we see as uh the economy
moving away from our goals. Uh
risks to both of the variables are a
little less. I think that the upside
risk to inflation again a little bit
less and the downside risk to employment
a little less. Um,
I just would say that I'm not making a
judgment about how, you know, one of
them is more at risk than the other,
just that the risks to both of them have
have diminished.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Thanks. Um, BIS wrote a paper last
summer which concluded that global
investors were hedging their dollar
exposures in ways that previously they
they hadn't because of policy
uncertainty. Do you agree with BIS? We
really don't see much at all about that
that whole that whole story. There's
just not a lot of data that that
suggests that there's much to that.
&gt;&gt; Thanks,
&gt;&gt; Anna Swanson with the New York Times.
Um, can you talk more about what you
would need to see in the labor market to
conclude it's time to resume easing? Do
you need to see further deterioration in
the labor market or would it be enough
for inflation to soften? So we'll always
be looking at both things and so there
could be combinations, infinite numbers
of combinations that would cause us to
want to move. Certainly a weakening
labor market would be an argument for
loosening. But what's happening with
inflation? If inflation were at the same
time getting worse, you know, you just
you just have a very difficult situation
there. So we'll be looking at both.
Clearly a weakening labor market calls
for cutting. A stronger labor market
says that that the rate rates are in a
good place. We'll have to be making
similar judgments too on inflation
though.
&gt;&gt; And if inflation does pick back up and
the labor market doesn't show further
signs of deterioration, is it there a
chance that you could raise rates rather
than simply remaining on hold? What
would you need to see to consider
hiking?
&gt;&gt; We don't we don't take things off the
table, but it isn't anybody's base case
right now, anybody's base case that the
next move will be a rate hike. But, you
know, ultimately we'll do we'll do what
we think is the right thing. But that's
that's not where people's expectations
are right now.
Victoria.
&gt;&gt; Hi, Victoria Guido with Politico. Um, I
I wanted to ask, you've talked in the
past about concerns about the US fiscal
trajectory, and we've seen in the
Japanese bond market a lot of turmoil
recently, uh, in part due to concerns
over their their fiscal and and
long-term economic outlook. So, do you
worry that the US could at some point
find itself in a situ similar situation
to Japan, whether for fiscal or
demographic reasons? you know, over
time, you've seen that US rates have
remained pretty they haven't moved a lot
really for a while, but they haven't
moved a lot uh because of what's been
happening in Japan. Um, so
it's more of an overtime thing. The US
federal budget deficit is, you know,
uncontroversially on an unsustainable
path. The level of debt is not
unsustainable. It's very much
sustainable, but the path is
unsustainable. And the sooner we work on
it, the better. But um you know right
now the we're running a very large
deficit at essentially full employment
and um so the fiscal picture needs to be
addressed and it's not really being
addressed. So uh that's important. I I
I'm not in any way connecting it to some
sort of near-term market event, but u
ultimately it's something we'll have to
deal with and that you know in the end
in the endgame that's that's where you
wind up is in some kind of a difficult
thing. But that's that's not where we
are. It's not what Japan is either. But
uh it's certainly not where we are right
now.
&gt;&gt; Does it reduce the effect of your rate
cuts that longer term rates have overall
not really budged that much?
&gt;&gt; I I wouldn't say that. You know the
thing is um I mean technically
higher longerterm rates means less
accommodated financial conditions. But
remember many many things move longer
term rates. It's not and it's not mostly
what happens on the short end. There can
be effects of longerterm rates from our
moving our policy around but you know
it's much more you know assessments of
the fiscal path and fiscal policies and
and risks and things like that that move
the tenure around. You can you can look
back at and find periods where we've
been very actively moving the the policy
rate over the course of a year and over
the course of that year the tenure is
exactly where it started. So, it's not
there's not a tight link between, you
know, 10-year rates and and the
overnight rate.
&gt;&gt; Elizabeth,
thanks so much. Elizabeth Schelsey with
ABC News. Republican Senator Tom Tillis,
who [clears throat] sits on the Senate
Banking Committee, said he will block
any Fed nominee, including the chair,
until this investigation into you is
resolved. Do you support this move by
the senator, and what conversations have
you had with the senator?
&gt;&gt; I I've got nothing for you on that. More
broadly, what would happen to American
households if the Federal Reserve loses
its ability to operate independent from
politics?
So really the the point of of
independence is not to protect policy
makers or anything like that. It just is
that every advanced economy democracy in
the world has come around to this common
practice. It's just an institutional
arrangement that is that has served the
people well and that is to to have a
separation between uh to not have direct
elected official control over the
setting of monetary policy and the
reason is that monetary policy can be
used you know through an election cycle
to to affect the economy in a way that
will be politically worthwhile. So this
isn't I'm not talking about the US
context this is every advanced economy
democracy of any size. So it's a it's a
good practice. It's pretty much
everywhere among among countries that
look at all like the United States. And
I think if you lose that um it's first
of all it would be hard to restore the
credibility of the institution. If
people lose their faith that we're we're
we're making decisions,
you know, only on the basis of our of
our assessment of what's best for for
everyone for the for the wide public
rather than trying to benefit one group
or another. If if you lose that, it's
going to be hard to retain it. And we we
haven't lost it. I I don't believe we
will. I certainly hope we won't. But
it's very important. And the reason it's
important is that it's enabled central
banks generally not to be perfect, but
to serve the public well.
&gt;&gt; You're confident it can maintain that
independence at this point.
&gt;&gt; Yes. I mean, I'm strongly committed to
that and so are my colleagues.
Archie
&gt;&gt; thanks Archie Hall from the economist on
that sort of stabilization of the labor
market question. How much do you see the
weakening we saw over the past 6 months
year as a kind of data mirage around
immigration and the government shutdown
and so on that's now resolved or how
much have we seen a kind of real
underlying firming up in the state of
the labor market do you think?
Well, part of it is to your point, part
of it just is that that uh labor supply,
growth in labor supply has come to
essentially a halt from a fairly fast uh
uh clip of growth over the last couple
of years driven by immigration and then
that the halt being driven by a very
sudden stop in immigration. So many
outcomes were possible with that. Um you
know, supply came way down. Turns out
that demand for labor also came down a
very similar amount, maybe just a little
bit more, which is why the unemployment
rate has gone up. So I don't know
whether that's a coincidence or not, but
that's that's what's happened with with
that part. But if you look at other um
uh things like for example the just to
pick a couple um the conference board's
measure of job availability that came
out I don't know was it yesterday or
today but uh you know it shows ser it's
a survey showing that that workers feel
like job availability is it's a very low
reading just one reading but it's an
indication of softening uh people
part-time for economic reasons uh which
is a category within the broader U6
categor ategory measure um has moved up
significantly. So there there are lots
of I could go on and on. There are lots
of little places that suggest that the
labor market has softened. Uh but part
of but you're right part of payroll jobs
softening is that both the supply and
demand for labor has has come down.
Growth in those two have both have come
down. So that that makes it a difficult
time to read the labor market. Um you
know so imagine they both came down a
lot to the point where there is no job
growth.
Is that full employment? In a sense, it
is. If if demand and supply are in um
are are in balance, you know, that you
could say that's full employment. At the
same time, does it do we really feel
like that's that's a maximum employment
economy? Uh you know, it's a challenging
it's very challenging and quite unusual
situation.
&gt;&gt; Thanks. And and one more on growth and
the kind of strong growth outlook you're
strengthening growth outlook you're now
seeing. How much of that is the fiscal
stimulus we're seeing from the beautiful
bill, the tax cuts and and all of that?
&gt;&gt; So, you're seeing it already. You don't
have much of the fiscal I think the
outlook, you're right, it's it's
financial conditions and it's u it's
fiscal policy for 26. Um, but you've got
strong consumption that's been happening
before financial conditions have been
supportive, but before the fiscal uh uh
effects really are shown. So essentially
the economy has once again surprised us
with its strength not for the first
time. Uh you know consumer spending
although it's you know it's uneven
across income categories but consumer
spending overall numbers are good and um
we're benefiting from the you know from
the AI buildout of data centers. That's
that's another thing we're benefiting
from. But economy overall growth is
growth is um is on a solid footing it
looks like. And and it's not just those
things. It's it's just the consumers the
consumer is filling out, you know,
surveys that sound really negative and
then spending. So, there's been a
disconnect for some time between
downbeat surveys and, you know,
reasonably good spending data.
&gt;&gt; Thanks, Sher Pow. Christine Romans from
NBC News. You talked about how consumer
spending is uneven. The president calls
inflation defeated and solved. The FOMC
says it's a somewhat elevated inflation,
but you talked about those customer
survey or those some consumer sentiment
surveys and public opinion polls that
show that most families say the cost of
living is still issue number one. What
is the conversation around the table
with your colleagues about how wealthier
consumers seem to be driving so much of
the economy and why so many families
still feel like they just can't make
ends meet after 5 years of rising
prices? What is that discussion like?
&gt;&gt; So, a couple things. one, there's
something something to it in in that we
know that um higher income households
that tend to own real estate and tend to
own stocks, you know, securities and
those assets have been going up in value
and and you know, increases in wealth do
support spending over time. So, and
that's that's clearly a part of the
story. We also know that for some time
now, for you know, a year or more, we've
been hearing from u
retailers, for example, that serve lower
income customers, whether it be food or
the big box stores or any they're saying
the same thing, which is our consumers
are looking to economize. They're
they're trading down from brands and
they're buying less and it's changing
their buying habits and that kind of
thing. So we're seeing that and that's
that is a reality of what we're seeing.
They're still consuming but but um
they're they're feeling it in a
different way. I would say more broadly
on affordability. We we you know we have
a vast network uh through the reserve
banks and also through the board of
governors where we talk to small and
large businesses and and households. And
so we do [clears throat] hear a lot
about affordability and we take we take
that very seriously and we take it to
heart because you know our job is one of
our jobs is price stability and so you
know the the best thing we can do for
for people who are feeling that squeeze
is to keep inflation under control and
you know frankly to finish the job of
getting inflation back down to 2%.
&gt;&gt; You mentioned the AI buildout as being a
positive [clears throat] for economic
growth this year. I wonder as you look
at the weakest year last year for job
creation of a nonrecession year since
like 2003, are you concerned about AI
maybe supplanting more entrylevel work
and entry level jobs and how does that
play into your what you're watching
about the labor market?
&gt;&gt; You know, so everyone of course is
watching AI and the deployment and you
know trying to understand exactly what's
happening. Um and there's a wide range
of possibilities. It's it's hard to say.
We're and of course anyone who uses it
is amazed at at what it can accomplish,
right? So, uh, every every technological
wave will will eliminate some jobs and
and create other jobs. And it's always
been the case if you look back wave
after wave after wave. There will be
some disruption, but ultimately
technology uh increases productivity,
which is the basis for rising wages. And
it may not all happen immediately but
over time it's what it's what enables
incomes to rise over time is rising
productivity. So will and we always ask
well this this is going to be different
you know is is it going to be different
and we we don't know um and we may in
any case see in the short term uh jobs
that are being eliminated by the
capabilities of AI we may see that um we
just don't know what the overall effect
is going to be. So how to think about it
in in ter in macroeconomic terms it's
very hard you know we we can look at the
aggregate data uh we can we can analyze
for example the that there is some
connection it appears between the um low
hiring rate for recent college grads uh
and AI but it's not the the main or only
driver. Um, you hear large companies
though saying many of them saying that
they either won't be hiring for some
time or that they're hiring less or that
they're laying people off and they they
tend to refer to AI uh when they when
they do that. So, we're all watching and
learning and it could could certainly
have pretty significant effects on the
economy, the workforce, and our society.
Um we don't really have the tools to
address the concerns that may arise but
we have a lot of people who who focus on
analyzing it and try to try to
understand what the macroeconomic
implications are which which is our job
[clears throat]
&gt;&gt; thank you chair Powell Bey from AFP news
agency um you mentioned earlier that on
inflation the broad expectation was for
a onetime price increase and then for
inflation to come down and I was
wondering you know is your expectation
still for inflation to start cooling in
the second half of 2026 and you if you
could elaborate how far we are from
target currently thank you
&gt;&gt; so how far we are from target is um as I
mentioned in my opening remarks we're we
had 3% 3.0% 0% core PCE inflation over
the 12 months ending in December. And
that's pretty much what we had the year
before. So on net no progress, but the
story behind that is is modestly
positive in that most of the overshoot
was in goods prices which we think is
related to tariffs and ultimately we
think those will not result in inflation
as opposed to a one-time price increase.
Okay. So that's that's where where it is
in terms of if you asked um so it
[clears throat] no one thinks they they
will uh you know Exanti understand
really clearly precisely when this will
happen but there's an expectation that
sometime in the middle quarters of the
year we'll see um tariff inflation
topping out. So what we do is we when
when a tariff is put in place we track
the effect of those tariffs over a six,
seven, eight, nine month period and you
can see and then you can see for that
tariff how long it takes to reach a
place where it's it's affected the price
level and that's it. So we're getting
better at that and and our estimate is
that it'll be sometime in the middle of
the year but I wouldn't look for great
precision in that but you know we'll be
able to see whether things are moving in
that direction. I think you know we will
be able to see
&gt;&gt; Richard Escob.
&gt;&gt; Thanks Chair Pal. I'm Richard Escobido
with CBS News. Um I want to look outside
the US about what's happening outside
our shores and how it impacts the US. Um
Canada's prime minister said last week
that there's been a rupture in the
global order and I wonder how you're
thinking about geopolitical risk as it
relates to the US economy. So I I can't
I can't comment on that on on that
speech or statement or anything like
that. You know geopolitical risk for us
is a lot of it is around um energy oil
and so far we haven't you know with all
for all the turmoil we really oil prices
are have come down as you know and and
so we don't really see much you know
longer than that uh it's trade and you
know the the trade uh the economy our
economy has has pulled through pretty
well. You'd have to say given the very
significant changes in trade policy, the
US economy has has pushed right through.
Partly that is that the the way that
what was implemented was significantly
less than what what was announced at the
beginning. In addition, other countries
didn't retaliate. And in addition, a
good part of it hasn't been passed
through to consumers yet. It's being
it's being taken by companies that stand
between the consumer and the and the
exporter.
So that's where that is.
&gt;&gt; Jennifer,
&gt;&gt; thank you to your pal. Jennifer Shawn
Burgerer with Yahoo Finance. With third
quarter GDP growing at 4.4% and the
fourth quarter expected to have a five
handle on it uh as to what the Atlanta
Fed is predicting at a time when you had
a government shutdown and we thought
that was going to shave off some growth.
You've also got the fiscal tailwinds.
You've talked about big tax refunds
coming, potential tariff dividend. How
could you cut rates and not spur
inflation in that environment?
&gt;&gt; Well, um we didn't cut rates today. Uh
but um you know, it would dep it depends
on how fast potential output is growing,
right? I'm just ask ask in principle.
I'm not you know I'm not saying this is
what's happening, but you know there's
growth and there's how fast the
potential is growing. And at a time of
of um you know high productivity growth
potential output is rising. So it really
matters whe whether um potential output
is growing as fast as actual output and
and it would matter over time. The
numbers you cite were for quarters and
quarterly GDP is you need to look at 12
months because quarterly G GDP can be
very lumpy. You know GDP was negative in
the first quarter last year. So the
overall over the year the numbers were
nothing like that. you know, it was more
in the mid- twos for the year.
&gt;&gt; And how do you explain the divide right
now between strong economic growth and
the job market? Is it productivity
that's filling the gap? And is
productivity being driven by AI at this
point? So we
there has been you're right there has
been a divide of solid growth but what
looked like a weakening labor market and
that can be explained by um by rising
productivity but um I would say we we do
see signs of certainly of the of the
unemployment rate stabilizing. So it may
be we're seeing the beginning of the
resolution of those two things. Also, as
you probably know, the the lore is that
when GDP and and the labor market get
into an argument, in the end, uh labor
market is more the labor market data is
more reliable. GDP data is is very hard
to to collect and understand, but
nonetheless, I think we we may be seeing
that that tension resolving a little
bit. Too soon to say with any uh
confidence, though. [snorts]
&gt;&gt; Matt Egan.
Matt Eaggan with CNN. Chair
[clears throat] Powell, after today, you
have two meetings left as Fed chair.
You've obviously experienced a lot
during your time as Fed chair, served
under multiple presidents. I'm wondering
what advice you have for whoever your
successor might be.
&gt;&gt; Honestly, I'd say a couple of things.
One is um
you know, stay out of elected politics.
Don't get pulled into elected politics.
Don't do it. And that that's another
thing. Another is um that you know our
window into democratic accountability is
Congress and it's not a passive burden
for us to go to Congress and talk to
people. It's an affirmative regular
obligation. If you want democratic
legitimacy, you earn it by your
interactions with the our elected
overseers. And so it's something you
need to work hard at and I I have worked
hard at it. So um and the last thing is,
you know, it's easy to it's easy to
criticize government institutions so
many ways. I will tell whoever it is,
you're about to meet the most qualified
group of people you you not only have
ever worked with, you will ever work
with. And when you meet Fed staff, and
not everybody's perfect, but but there
isn't a better cadre of professionals
more dedicated to the public well-being
than work at the Fed.
&gt;&gt; Thanks for that answer. U if I may
follow up, as I'm sure you've noticed,
gold and silver prices have experienced
historic gains of late. And I'm
wondering how much attention, if any,
you pay to those moves and and what
message you may take from these uh
significant price increases we've seen
for precious metals.
&gt;&gt; Don't don't take much message
macroeconomically. Um the argument can
be made it's, you know, that we're
losing credibility or something. It's
simply not the case. If you look if you
look at where inflation expectations
are, our credibility is right where it
needs to be. So, we look at those
things. We don't we don't get spun up
over particular asset price changes,
although we do we do monitor them, of
course.
&gt;&gt; Nicole, for the last question,
&gt;&gt; hi Nicole, good kind barren. Some
prominent critics have charged that the
Fed's economic models are are somewhat
backwardlooking um but should be more
forward-looking incorporating things
like productivity increases from AI. How
do you incorporate current and future
developments into your analysis and
decision-m and do you have a an answer
to those critics?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So,
by and large those criticisms
as somebody on the inside, they just
don't make sense. And I'll tell you why.
Every FOMC participant writes down a
forecast every quarter, right? The
summary of economic projections and
that's the basis for how we think about
the economy. So and the the other thing
is you know uh what an what an economic
model can do is it can grind up all the
data for the last number of years 50
years let's say and it can it can
identify what are the relationships
between variables A B C D and all that
kind of thing and it can tell you if you
change one of those variables this is
what should happen in the macroeconomy
it that's just the way it works however
the structure of the macroeconomy is
constantly changing for example we
hadn't had a pandemic in 100 years. It
wasn't in the model and we knew it from
the very beginning. It was not in the
model. A trade war of this scope, we'd
never had that in, you know, in a
hundred years. And and so there's great
uncertainty at at uh at different
points. Um, another thing I'll say is,
uh, you know, when it comes to, uh, you
know, technological developments that
raise potential output, some kind of
technological renovation, you know,
revolution like like happened in the '9s
here and like maybe happening now with
AI, we're all over that. And, you know,
we everyone studies those periods and,
you know, we're very cleareyed about the
possibility that this higher
productivity may persist um, and also
that it may not. you know, we we we're
not no one's sitting here unaware of the
possibility of higher productivity.
We've been talking about it for three
years. It it long predates the current
situation. It's been going on for five
or six years. We've had productivity
higher. We've been talking about it that
whole time. So, it's very much on our
minds and we we are well well aware that
higher productivity means higher
potential output and it it changes the
way you think about potentially
inflation, growth, labor market and all
those things. That's all in our models.
I mean, if it's just a question of using
better models, bring them on. You know,
where are they? We'll take them. But I
think, you know, we we [snorts]
certainly are in contact with anybody
who does economic modeling and and we're
always looking to do better at that. But
that's that's how I think about that.
&gt;&gt; And just a quick followup, we've been
talking a lot about tariffs and passing
through and we've been talking a lot
about them for the past few months. You
know, the trade landscape is still in a
constant state of flux. uh
announcements, threats, negotiations,
they're all frequently changing. So, I'm
wondering how you actually
track these, how what data channels are
most critical to follow this in real
time.
&gt;&gt; Trade.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, the impact of tariffs and how
they're changing.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I I think our staff has done a
really nice job on that and and they've
kind of put it together in real time.
So, as I mentioned, a tariff gets put in
place. You can pretty much track its
effects on pricing and on everything and
and so you build up build a model up
from all of the all of the tariffs. At
the beginning, it was very much of a
forecast. Now, it's it's every every
cycle that goes by, it becomes more
informed by actual data. And, you know,
we were we our forecasts were not far
off. Um what changed was as I think I
said earlier what changed was what was
implemented was smaller than what was
announced. In addition we didn't see
retaliation internationally and I think
people did generally expect that because
we saw that in the past and that really
mattered too. And then the other thing
is that pass through didn't know how
fast that was going to be to consumers.
Didn't know how much exporters would
take how much it companies in the middle
would take and how much the consumer
would take. And it turns out it's a lot
of companies in the middle who, by the
way, are pretty strongly committed to
passing the rest of it through, which is
one of the reasons why we need to keep
our eye on inflation and not declare
victory prematurely.
&gt;&gt; Thank you.
&gt;&gt; We're done.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Thank you very much.