The president's war has obviously disrupted oil prices in their way up over the last couple of days. That means gasoline prices go up. So that means inflation goes up. But the Fed has some experience dealing with this. Right. So I think the question is, obviously, when Russia invaded Ukraine, it sent a commodity shockwave all around the world. And I was on that go back a few years. I was on Team Transitory, which said, hey, I think that this inflation that's coming out of the pandemic won't be that bad and will be short lived. Obviously, we adjusted that view. That was not the right call and we adjusted. We raised rates aggressively in part because of that commodity shockwave. That was one of the contributing factors for why inflation got so high. But now, if you look fast forward a few years. When Hamas attacked Israel, I was ready for a commodity shockwave that didn't come. And so now the question I think that we are wrestling with and markets are wrestling with is how long is this going to last? How bad is it going to get? Is it going to look more like Russia, Ukraine or is it going to look more like Hamas attacking Israel? And that's going to have effects on monetary policy. I don't think anybody thinks when Russia invaded Ukraine and the inflation that resulted, that the Fed should have just ignored that. I mean, that would have been the true transitory call. It's a one time effect. Just look through it. I think right now it's just too soon to know what imprint this has on inflation and for how long. Well, there's a follow on question to that in that we've seen a sort of hockey stick action in gasoline prices since gasoline futures went up and oil prices went up over the last 24 hours. It's also used oil in many other manufactured products, in pharmaceuticals, in plastics, etc.. How long do we need to see elevated prices before this becomes not just a headline spike, but it gets into core inflation? Yeah, I mean, that's something we think about all the time. We obviously, you know, Mike, we focus on corn. Our target is headline inflation, but we focus on core because core is a better indicator of where headline is going. But even when you strip out food and energy, they do eventually affect core because just as you said, energy goes into producing core goods and services as well. So I think that process takes a while. For me, though, the bigger issue is just if headline inflation is going to be elevated for an extended period of time coming off of five years of elevated inflation. Boy, that's a that's a scenario that we need to pay a close attention to and we have to pay attention to what happens to long run inflation expectations as well. And so there's a lot to pay attention to right now. Coming into this moment, I was feeling pretty good. Inflation is still too high, but I'm I feel like it's been slowly heading in the right direction. The labor market is pretty good. A little bit getting softer. But generally speaking, we're around the band of our dual mandate. And so I felt like policy was in a pretty good place and we have the luxury of just letting it gradually glide back to neutral. Now we need to see with this new shock, potentially a new shock hitting the global economy. What is how long is the effect and how big is the effect? Well, as Roseanne Roseannadanna used to say, it's always something. And years ago, before we started the war, we were worried about tariffs. Remember tariffs? The consensus of the Open Market Committee seems to be listening to people speaking, speaking that we're kind of in peak tariffs now. And and you've basically said the same thing. Inflation should begin to come down in the second half of the year. But since the Supreme Court ruling. Has that changed, in your view, in terms of we're not going to know what tariffs are for a while now and we're not going to know when they're going to put them on or how they're going to affect the economy. So you can't really have confidence that inflation's going to come down. Well, I think there's no question that the Supreme Court ruling and now the uncertainty about what is the new tariff regime, which authorities are they going to use? How close can they get back to replicating what they had originally imposed? That's introduce uncertainty. And uncertainty is a drag on the economy broadly. I don't think I haven't seen any evidence that the new tariff regime, whatever it is, is going to lead to a new round of elevated inflation. It seems like, based on the commentary from the administration, they mostly want to try to recreate what they had before. And the question is how close can they come to that? So I would expect that inflation just on that one factor is likely going to be on the same trajectory or maybe a somewhat lower trajectory if they're not able to fully replicate the tariffs that they had before. I haven't seen a lot of evidence that tariffs are going to go much higher from here. But, you know, we need to see, well, does this push out the timeframe for you to be able to have confidence that we're not seeing a tariff impact? I don't. Just on the tariff attack, setting aside geopolitics in Iran, just in the tariff effects. I don't. It isn't obvious to me that it's going to delay the deceleration of the expected deceleration of inflation, because I don't see a lot of scenarios where they're going to substantially increase tariffs from here. So where do you put yourself now? Obviously, you have to put a new dot plot together for the next meeting on March 18th. What do you think? Do you think first of all, there's going to be any move in March? I would assume you would say no. But after that, when do you think it's more likely that you might consider it as a live issue? Well, in December, if you look at my December ACP, I have preferred us not cutting in December, but the committee did. If you just do the math, I effectively had one dot now for 2026. I basically had two and two and because they did three, then I brought 1.4. So that leaves me with one dot coming in to recent events. So one expected cut later on this year. Now, with the geopolitical events that we talked about, you know, I just need to see we need to get a lot more data in the inflation data before Iran, I think has suggested that inflation is running somewhere between two and a half and 3%. I think housing inflation is trending down. I've got a lot of confidence in that. Our core goods inflation has been trending up because of tariffs. Services inflation, I think is slowly trending down, tied to the labour market. And the labour market is in a decent place but showing some signs of softness. And so that's what gave me confidence. Hey, one cut later this year might make sense. Now the neutral rate, I don't know. Well, tell us where you think we are compared to neutral, because the question I have is every ACP says that the Fed will hit its target two years from now. I know the next ACP says two years from now, are you ever going to really hit it? Well, we have to hit it. And I think my colleagues and I are committed for the credibility of the institution and for anchored inflation expectations that we absolutely have to hit it. But where the neutral rate is has been a big question mark over the last several years. We kept forecasting that the US economy is going to slow down and then it just power through. I thought when we raised rates as aggressively as we did that we'd be slamming the brakes on the economy. We weren't. The economy proved to be much more resilient in the face of tariffs. It created a lot of uncertainty, created a lot of noise, race, good inflation went up, but the US economy proved more resilient. And so the fact that the US economy has been this resilient, given the stance of our monetary policy, tells me the neutral rate must be higher, at least in the near term. And the thing about the dot plot, which is it's a very imperfect communication device, that long run DOT is meant to represent where is the long run neutral After all of the shocks in the economy have passed and everything is settled back down to normal, That doesn't necessarily tell us that much about where is neutral today. We don't know when the shocks will ever stop. This administration at the last meeting and you touched on this just a second ago, the focus of the committee's concern seemed to shift away from the labour market back to inflation. Are the risks now balanced? They feel more balanced again before setting aside the recent geopolitical event, which we need to understand the inflation and labour market do feel more balanced. I'll give you a quick anecdote. I go out and I travel around my district, which is Minnesota, North and South Dakota, Montana, part of Michigan and northwestern Wisconsin. North Dakota is always structurally short of workers. So for ten years I've been going to North Dakota and the number one issue I hear from businesses large and small, is we can't find enough workers. I was in North Dakota a couple of weeks ago, A roundtable of small businesses and roughly half the businesses said we're fully staffed. That is the first time in ten years I've heard that from businesses in North Dakota. Part of the story of why there's been no job creation is because there's been very little immigration into this country. But anecdotes like the North Dakota anecdote suggest to me there's also not a lot of underlying organic demand for labor right now. So I do see signs. Yes, 4.3% unemployment rate is still a good unemployment rate, but I do see evidence that the labor market is not demanding a lot of more workers right now. So I take that and I try to balance that against the fact that inflation is still too high. But I do believe it's gently trending down. Oh, you said you travel around talking to businesses around the district, of course. And I'm wondering what they're telling you about this low hire, low fire environment. Is it because they can't find workers that they're not hiring or is it because of all the uncertainty that they're not hiring? Are they finding that they can get the job done with the staff that they have? And therefore we have a new dynamic? I think it's the latter two. I think there's a lot of remains, a lot of domestic uncertainty and global uncertainty. The topics you all are well aware of and they are finding they can get by with what they have. And every business, large business that I talked to. I asked him specifically when I talked to the CEO or one of the senior leaders. Are you using AI for real? Not just some little pilot or are you actually using it? And virtually every business says yes. Even businesses that two years ago said that they were skeptical that consultants were pitching them AI and they aren't even sure how they could use it. They give me real specific examples. Now, it's not transforming their whole business, but there are pockets of their business where they've been able to put it to work and do things that they couldn't do before or do things much more efficiently. And I do think that that is affecting their decisions on how okay, how many people do we want to hire given we are early in this adoption phase? Staying with A.I. because you brought it up. There is an argument that's being made by some people that you would be able to have lower interest rates because I will increase productivity. There's also an argument that I will lead to a higher neutral rate because of investment and or demand rising. Where do you come down? I mean, I think if if you have a massive new AI is not a low capital technology, this is massively capital intensive with hundreds of billions of dollars or maybe trillions of dollars going to build data centers and compute things you all understand if the economy how does it how does that happen? The economy reallocate capital to its most productive use through higher rates, and that means apartment buildings that would have been built, apps and AI, that capital is now going to shift over and build data centers because mortgage rates are going to be higher than they otherwise would have been. That's how capital gets reallocated in the market economy. And so my first long term could have an effect on the neutral rate and bring things down. It's possible in the near term, too. I think it's probably pushing up the neutral rate. I yes, I think so. Likely. And, you know, people make comparisons to the nineties and Greenspan famously saying, hey, there's a productivity boom. It wasn't a debate about cutting rates. It was a debate about whether they should be raising rates. And Greenspan used the productivity insight to say, let's just hold them where they are. By the way, that was about a 5% federal funds rate. And so when people look to the nineties, I think that there are there are lessons to be learned from the nineties. But I don't look at that and say, oh, that means we should be cutting rates right now when the policy rate is well below where it was in the nineties. What are the CEOs telling you about pricing? Are they sitting on the need to raise prices? Are they going to be raising prices because of tariffs? Where are they? The most common comment that I've heard in recent months is you would expect to see some repricing at the start of the year that they were reluctant to pass on. They passed on some cost to their customers last year. They wanted to try to adjust their supply chains or adjust their product mix to avoid having to pass that pain on. But the longer it goes, eventually they will have to pass it on and that the start of the year would be a natural inflection point. And so I think we are starting to see some evidence of continued pass through in this in this early inflation data. But I'm not hearing a lot of anecdotes that they see major inflation waves yet to come. It's more that things are slowly adjusting to the effect of tariffs from last year. So this is still a look through it situation. It's a well, it's a pay attention to it situation. I mean, yes, we you know, we're trying to get a sense of where we think inflation is headed, but we can't be completely dismissive of the fact that consumers are feeling the prices. I mean, you look at the goods, inflation, goods, inflation, core goods, inflation is real. It should be negative in a normal in a normal American economy in recent years. It was negative briefly and then it has climbed linearly since then. And so that's real and that's having an effect on the economy. What's your forecast for inflation this year then? The progression, I assume you end the year lower than we are now? Yeah, somewhat lower than we are now. And I'm more focused on the trajectory than I am. You know, are we going to print 2.5 or are we going to print 2.2 but generally lower? Again, I go through the the fundamental components, the big components, housing inflation, I have a lot of confidence is trending down because we understand the mechanism from new rents and new leases after a year or two. It translates into the official housing statistics. New rents and new leases have come way down. So we've got a lot of confidence that housing inflation is coming down. That's a big piece of the basket. Then you've got core goods I talked about had already returned a slight disinflation, which is normal in the US economy, climbed because of tariffs. That ought to be a short lived event unless there's new tariff effects brewing. And then you have core services outside of housing, and that ought to be tied to wages. And if the labor market is slowing, and I think it is, that ought to be coming down. So that's the reason I've got some confidence that inflation is heading in the right direction. But for recent events, which now has introduced a new shock that we need to pay attention to or as I've said, and yet here we are. So how much confidence do you have in the forecasts that you're going to be putting out in March? I mean, I had a lot of confidence up until a couple of days ago that just like the dynamic that I described of where inflation is heading, I had more confidence. And so now back to where we started. Does this more like Russia? Does this look more like Russia invading Ukraine or does it end up looking more like Hamas attacking Israel? I don't know yet. And so we need to wait and see. So let's shift gears a little bit here and talk about the new boss for you who fans out there. Not the same as the old boss. It might surprise the president, but the Fed chair just can't walk in and lower interest rates on their own. The main power the chair has is persuasion. So how do you think Kevin Warsh will do with that? I think he'll do well. I mean, he's obviously spent five or six years as a governor at the Federal Reserve Board, so he knows the institution well. I think he's been focused on and studying these issues for a long time. And I think he will come forward with you know, he's he's talked about a wide range of things in between when he was at the board and now everything from monetary policy to how we implement monetary policy to how we're organized. I think those are all great topics and I look forward to hearing what his priorities are and then engaging in the discussion. He hasn't been exactly complimentary about the Fed in the last couple of years. How's that going to go over? How does that go through the system? I think it'll be fine. I mean, I think we've made mistakes. We're not perfect. I think we're all doing our very best in a highly uncertain environment. I've said I was on team Transitory. I thought that inflation coming out of COVID would be short lived and not that bad. I was wrong about that. And so I think we should be forced to step back and look at what have we done? Well, what did we miss? Why do we miss it and how do we do better going forward? Now, assuming he is confirmed and in place and on time, how long will it be before people like me are referring to it as the worst fed in the same way that people ask? When did it become the Trump economy? When do you think people will look at it as him as the centerpiece driving the Fed? Well, I haven't thought about that. I mean, that'll be for you. That'll be your call, because you're going to be writing the headlines or your editors. We write in the headlines on top of your stories. You know, I don't know. But people are going to take his views seriously the moment he shows up, the moment he engages in debate and makes, you know, the chair has a lot of influence, The chair can say, hey, here are the range of options I want the committee to consider. And then we have deliberations around those options. And so I think the day he shows up and starts setting the agenda for the FOMC, in a way it becomes his Fed. Well, one of the things he wants to do is have a smaller balance sheet. Now, whether that means you go back to scarce reserves or just a smaller balance sheet, where would you come down on that idea? I think it's timely to have that debate. And when I first got to the Fed ten years ago, I asked the question, why did the Fed switch from a scarce reserve regime to an ample regime? And one of the explanations I was given is there was an ample regime is much simpler. Instead of the New York desk having to trade in and out of markets to keep the federal funds rate in the range, you just set a rate, you dial it in and you forget. It sounds great in theory. In reality, we do that. We also have a ceiling facility called the Discount window. We have a separate ceiling facility called the supplemental facility. We also have a floor facility called the own R.P. Once in a while, we have to make technical adjustments on the rates to keep things in the range. And then once in a while, the New York desk still has to intervene and inject reserves into the market. So this very simple regime that we've created is not nearly as simple as it was originally explained. And so for us to step back and look at that and say, is this optimal for the US economy, I think that that would be a debate that would be well worth having. He also thinks that you all talk too much and he has suggested he'd like to see fewer, more coordinated speeches and essays. You've been at the forefront of communicating through all kinds of means. So should he clip your wings? Well, I don't know what you're going to do all day if he does that. Here's the challenge, guys. Yeah, exactly. Here's the challenge. So just this is my approach to communicating. When I have I go out across my district, we get locked limitations from chambers of commerce in universities and rotary clubs. I turn down the vast majority of those. But I do want to visit every state in my district at least once a year and just communicate. What is it that we're looking at at the Fed? Most of the time I'm not seeking to make news. I'm just explaining, Hey, this is what's going on in the economy. This is what we looked at. This is why the committee made the decision that they made at the last meeting. Now, I also livestream these events in the spirit of transparency. So I'm not sharing secrets. And yet me doing that can lead to some headlines. And now when you have 12 presidents doing that across their districts, it's good for democracy because we're communicating to our constituents. But I can also see how people say, well, that generates a lot of headlines on certain news outlets. And so I don't know how to change that. If you want to be transparent to the American public and transparent to the communities that we are charged to represent. That's the that's the part that makes it hard. As far as we know, Kevin Warsh hasn't been formally nominated yet. And then he has to go through the nomination hearings. And we have one senator, at least, who says he's going to block everything until the investigation into Jay Powell is finished. In your understanding, what happens if Warsh is not confirmed by the time the chair loses his chairmanship, not his seat on the board? Well, this happened between Jay Powell first and second terms, and it happened sometime in the Greenspan era, too, where there were delays not through any big problem, but there was just a delay in the White House, acting in the Senate, acting. And my understanding is the board of governors votes at that moment to then re extend the current chair to serve as chair pro-tem. So it's just an extension, so to speak, of the role as at the Board of Governors, and that'll be up for the governors to sort out. But that's that's the precedent. Well, the interesting thing is you vote every year who's going to be the chair of the Open Market Committee. And this year you voted Jay Powell to be the chair until next year. But in that past episode, they just voted to have him be the chair until a successor is in place. Was the board trying to send a message? I'm I'm unaware. I mean, that was every year I'm used to Every year we have a vote on who the chair of the FOMC is going to be for that year. And this just seemed like the routine process that we followed every year or so. I'm unaware if there was some implied message in attempting to be sent. Would you like to see people stay on as a governor? I think Jay Powell has done a terrific job as a governor and as chair, and I'd love it if he chose to continue because I think he's a great colleague. We'll finish up with we'll finish up with an audience. Question here. If employment continues to soften and inflation doesn't come down, which is worse for America? It's hard, you know. This is a pickle. I'll give you a quick example. Conventional economic analysis says that recessions so high unemployment are devastating and worse than inflation. But when I actually talk to workers like I talked to ahead, I've talked about this publicly before. I've talked to a head of a local head of a labor union in Minnesota, one who represents low income service workers. And she made the opposite comment. She said for her members, inflation is worse than recession. And I said, I don't understand that in a recession, you lose your job in inflation, you just pay more, she said. Because my members are used to recessions. They rely on a brother, a sister, a mom or dad, a friend who still has a job to help them get through it. But inflation affects everybody, so there's nobody in your network you can lean on for help because they're all suffering like you are. That was a profound insight that I was not ready for, and it made me step back and reassess my judgments about these things. So I'm going to give you an I don't know, answer. We got to get inflation back down to 2% and we need to keep the labor market strong so all these people can rush out at lunch and trade. No move in March. I'll let you speculate about that.