Without further ado, I do want to introduce Neel Kashkari as the president and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, one of the Federal Reserve System's 12 regional banks that covers Minnesota, the Dakotas, Montana, Northwestern Wisconsin, and Michigan's Upper Peninsula. We're very lucky that the Fed is located here. We get more time with him because he's more often in market here. As a voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee, Neel helps shape the nation's monetary policy and plays a key role in guiding conversations around inflation, employment, economic growth, financial stability. Before joining the Federal Reserve, Neel began his career as an aerospace engineer working on technology for NASA's space missions. He later served in a variety of public service and finance roles, most notably as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury during the 2008 financial crisis, where he oversaw the Troubled Asset Relief Program, TARP. So, please join me welcoming Neel Kashkari. Neel loves getting spontaneous questions from the audience, and I'm not being uh sassy. So, please, as you're listening, uh come up with some questions. We'll leave plenty of time for that. A few of you sent your questions in with your registration, and I'll include those as well. But, he really would love to hear from you uh more more than ever. So, thanks for coming, first of all. Uh thanks for having me. It's Oops, it's great to be here with you. Um if it's okay if I just start for for 2 minutes. Uh so, I want to just share with you why meetings like this are important and helpful. When Congress created the Federal Reserve in 1913, they did something unique. They said, "We need a central bank, but we want it to be spread out around the country." So, they created 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks, the ninth of which is here in Minnesota covering this region of the country, and a big part of our jobs are to know what's happening on the ground in our regional economy. And then I go back to Washington, D.C. every 6 weeks for what are called FOMC meetings, meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, where we set interest rates for the nation. And part of what I'm doing in those meetings is I'm talking about what's happening here in our regional economy. Now, we cannot set a different interest rate for Minnesota and for California and New York. It's the same dollar, it's the same economy, so we have to pick a monetary policy that's right for the country as a whole. But my job is to make sure that this region is represented in that deliberative process. So, meetings like this are very helpful for me to hear from you what's happening in your businesses, what are you seeing on the ground, what's the job market like, are you able to find the workers you need, what's happening to wages, what's happening to your prices of the goods that you buy. All of that will help us make sense of the data that we're seeing. Last thing I'll say, we look at a lot of data at local, state, and especially federal data. Usually that data is sending us conflicting signals. So, it's hard to make sense of where's the underlying economy headed. It's discussions like this that can really help us make sense of those confusing signals. So, hopefully we can see the signal and not get distracted by the noise. So, B, thank you for having me, I really appreciate it. My pleasure. So, let's jump in if you would. You level set us on your role as it relates to the two mandates of the Federal Reserve. Yeah, so when Congress created us, they've given us our assignments, our goals. We talk about a dual mandate, two primary goals, one of which is stable prices, what we've defined as 2% inflation. The other is maximum employment, as many Americans working as possible and contributing to our economy. Now, sometimes these things are trading off each other, where if the job market heats up a lot, the unemployment rate gets low, businesses have to pay up to find workers, but then they have to pass those costs onto their customers, and then that can lead to inflation. So, think about a seesaw that's tipping one way. In that scenario, we would typically raise rates to tap the brakes on the economy and level it off. Or, if the economy's headed into recession, we may have very high unemployment and very low inflation. In that case, we would typically cut interest rates to try to level it off the other direction. Well, right now, I don't need to tell you, inflation is still too high. It's been above our target now for more than 5 years. Before the Iran war started, I had some confidence we made a lot of progress bringing inflation back down. Wasn't wasn't all the way back down yet, but I had confidence it was heading in the right direction. The Iran conflict and the shockwave of oil prices around the world, and not just oil prices, fertilizer prices, other related commodities, that has really upended the inflation outlook. And now there's just a huge question mark of how long is the Strait of Hormuz going to be closed, because that is going to be very have a big effect on what is the path forward for inflation. And so we just don't know right now. So, on that topic of don't know right now, uh when last we spoke, you talked about uh monetary policy being mildly restrictive and that 2% is the historic goal for inflation. What would you say about this idea potentially that perhaps that's there's a new normal that needs to be set as it relates to what's normal inflation. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Uh I'm going to say definitely not. We do not want that. That is not where the Federal Reserve is. And let me let me tell you why. If all of you, you and I, and your employees, and your partners start to believe that 3% is now the new normal for inflation, your employees are going to come to you and say, "Hey, I need a bigger raise because my family is falling behind." And so that starts to get woven into your investment and planning decisions. And then you're going to pass those costs on to your customers. And then that becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. We have said that 2% is our inflation target. It's been our inflation target for a long time. Most advanced economies in the world have the same inflation target of 2%. We need to get back down to 2% to let people know we're not going to move the goalpost. Because if we move the goalpost to three, maybe you're going to think, "Well, maybe they're going to move it to four next time it gets hard." Or maybe you're going to move it to five. And then it becomes a creeping standard. And then that really undermines confidence in the economy. So we're committed to our 2% target. We need to finish the job. What's been challenging the past 5 years is economists call these shocks. Different things keep hitting the economy. COVID, the supply chains coming out of COVID, Russia invading Ukraine, now the war in Iran. These things are all inflationary. Like one after the other after the other. That doesn't mean it doesn't let us off the hook. We still have to get inflation back down, but it's made the job challenging. Well, let's dig into that a little bit more. How has your thinking adapted over this first 4 months of the year? You started 26 with a certain mindset. These econ- several surprises, some of them economic, some of them geopolitical. How is your thought thinking changed in the last first 5 months of the year? A few different ways. One thing as I mentioned a moment ago is before the Iran conflict started, I had some sense of confidence that inflation was slowly heading back down to our target. And I can walk you through why, but the data that we looked at, the analysis we looked at, I said, "Okay, it's moving gently in the right direction." And the labor market has mostly been moving sideways. It the unemployment rate nationally is around 4.3%. I would call it a lukewarm labor market. It's continued to move sideways. So, what has changed in the last 4 months? The Iran shock has upended the inflation environment, created a lot more upside risk on inflation, but we've also gotten more data on the labor market that the labor market looks like it's hanging in there. I think at the beginning of the year, I had a little more concern that maybe the labor market was weakening underneath the headline. The data that we've gotten since then says actually the labor market seems to be kind of treading water. So, labor market looks a little bit better than maybe I thought in January or February. Inflation definitely looks worse. Another thing that I had been watching for the last 6 months is the K-shaped economy. This idea that different parts of the economy move in sharply different directions. And you talk about investing in labor and capital. I think that's how you phrase it. Can you talk about the K-shaped economy um economy and what we're talking about here? You know, there there are a lot of confusing messages coming out of the economy. So, first of all, the economy, if you look at overall GDP, it's held up pretty well. If you look at corporate profits, especially for big companies, they've held up very, very well. So, on some estimates, the economy looks like it's doing well. If you survey people and you survey businesses, generally they're much more gloomy. They're much gloomier than the actual statistics would suggest. Uh you know, a few years ago we talked about everybody was gloomy about the economy, but then they were spending a lot of money on Taylor Swift tickets, right? People wanted the experience economy. That trend seems like it has continued, but it really has fragmented more where well more well-to-do families are feeling confident enough to go out and spend, and lower-income families are really having to pinch pennies to just try to make ends meet, so to so to speak. You know, we talked to a lot of businesses that have strong retail footprints, and they can see how their own retail customers are changing their behavior. And lower-income customers are really cutting back because they're feeling the pain of inflation, and their wages are not keeping up with the climbing prices. And so, that is an example of the K-shaped economy. Well-to-do folks who own their own homes, and or who have 401(k)s and stock portfolios, are feeling more confident, continue to spend. People on the lower end of the economic distribution are really struggling a lot more, and I think that that has continued. Very much so. So, let's talk a little bit about how Minnesota and the 9th District overall is performing compared to national economic trends. I think overall this region is performing a lot like the country as a whole. You know, our region broadly, so what we cover is bigger than Minnesota, Minnesota, the Dakotas, Montana, the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, and Northwestern Wisconsin. This region, it's a big geography, looks a lot like a miniature United States of America. Because we have manufacturing here, we got a lot of ag. We have oil and gas in North Dakota. We have exports. We have health care. We have financial services. In a In a way, it's a mini United States of America. And some sectors are doing better, some sectors are more stressed, but that gives us a resilience because usually some sectors are doing better while others are more stressed. So, I think in many ways we look a lot like America as a whole. Some of the dynamics are a little bit different, of course. We had metro surge here, which had a profound impact here in our local economy. It didn't From what we can tell it didn't really get into farms and agriculture as much. It seems like they were carved out. It was really more focused on the urban areas. But those are some differences. But if I were to say right now, I think our region looks a lot like the country as a whole. Thank you. All right, I'm going to turn it over I mean I have several more questions, but I really want to pause and give Neil an opportunity to connect with you. So, if you would get ready with microphone team, I'm going to ask one question that came from your registrations. Which is, what is your forecast for housing sale prices and rental affordability if interest rates are not lowered? Um, housing affordability if interest rates are not lowered. Let me talk for a second about why interest rates are where they are. There's a notion of that to really important for monetary policy makers is what is the neutral interest rate. What interest rate neither stimulates the economy nor restrains the economy. This interest rate is set by broader economic forces such as savings and investment. So, savings and investment, all of us save some money. You put it either in the bank or a savings account or some kind of a portfolio. And that money is made available for businesses that want to invest. And that where that neutralizes, where that evens out, that sets the interest rate environment. And the Fed is now raising rates or lowering rates around that neutral level. But we don't set the neutral level. Well, in the last four or five years, you all know, you've seen it, massive demand for new investment capital for data centers, for AI, for chips, for power systems to power the data centers, for water systems to cool it. Hundreds of billions of dollars a year. Well, when you have hundreds of billions of dollars a year of new investment demand, all else being equal, it's going to push up interest rates. Because how does how does how do those data centers get funded? Those data centers get funded by capital that would have invested over here, instead getting reallocated over here. So, why am I telling you that? Imagine, I'm going to make up a number. Imagine an apartment building that would have gotten it funded, it would have penciled out if it could get a 3% mortgage. Well, now that apartment building's not going to get funded because mortgage rates have gone up to say 6%. And that capital that would have built that apartment building is now going to go over here and build the data center. The reason I'm telling you that is mortgage rates are a little bit influenced by what we do at the Fed. But mortgage rates are much more of a long-term interest rate. Let's say you're going to have 10 years or more. Uh that really is set by these broader economic fundamentals. And so, it's my long way of saying uh I'm not sure what the Fed does on interest rates to get inflation back down is going to have much of an influence on mortgage rates and therefore on affordability on a whole bunch of different from a whole bunch of different perspectives because of these broader dynamics that are taking place right now. And we can get into that in more detail if if folks want in the Q&amp;A. Anybody else right now who's got a question? Please. Mike Microphone's coming to you. So, I was just reading an article about the producer price index, uh which I think is relatively new, and the spike that was seen in some of the factors in that. Can you speak a little bit about what you what you interpret from those numbers and what impact that's going to have downstream and eventually on consumer prices? Is that Is that going to be big? Is that going to be I don't know. I don't know how to kind of look at that number in this environment that we're dealing with. Yeah, so I would just say that the data I think you're referring to came out today. I don't over- I don't focus too much on any one inflation report because these things tend to move around quite a bit. Uh we do know a few things. We do know that oil prices have shot up and other commodities adjacent to the Middle East have shot up. Now, you'll often hear us talk about core inflation instead of headline inflation. The reason we do that is because food and energy prices tend to be volatile. And it's not that they don't matter. You know, you have to pay for food, you have to pay for energy. Those components matter a lot. But if we want to get a read of where is underlying inflation going, we tend more to focus on core. So, we know the headline numbers have shot up really rapidly because of what's happening in the Middle East and oil prices. Having said that, even if you strip out oil, oil goes into everything, right? It goes into diesel for trucks that maybe bring your produce. Uh it goes into plastics that are in the the products that you buy. And so, it really for me it comes back to to try to simplify it, how long is the Strait of Hormuz going to be closed? And even if it were to reopen tomorrow, some very large companies who have global supply chains have said to me, "Even if if it reopens tomorrow, it's going to be months before their supply chains return to normal." And so, uh I'm not that surprised by the headline the numbers that you're talking about. I want to see how persistent they are and then I want to see what happens in the Middle East and how persistent the closure is of the strait cuz that's kind of the root cause that's driving all of this. Who else? Great, one more in the back. Thank you. Back to the housing market. Um I've heard and read that the supply of housing in the Midwest is lower than on the coasts and that affects pricing, etc. Could you comment on that? Is that true that our region has less housing supply generally or I don't actually know if that's true. A few years ago I'd see some data that said that this the Minneapolis St. Paul region actually had built marginally more than many similar metros around. I don't know what the last year or two data is, but there's no question that the single most important driver is going to be supply. We just need a lot more supply of all types of housing. And there's you know, think about four different components of cost. One component is the cost of materials. Inflation is obviously up. Not much you can do about that. It's our job to get inflation back down. Second is labor availability. Obviously, if there are fewer immigrant workers to build homes, on the margin that's going to make labor somewhat less available, potentially causing some inflationary pressure there. Third of course is the rate environment that I already talked about. That really is driven by broader macroeconomic forces though the Fed has some effect. And then the last piece of it is really about regulation and local zoning. And I always say to people, I say, "You know why it's so hard to build? It's because of people like me." and people like you who own their own homes and who don't want people building more homes in our neighborhoods. And so we say, "Okay, you can build someplace else, you just can't build in my neighborhood." And when we all do that, you can't build anywhere. And then all of a sudden the home prices skyrocket because we just limit new supply from coming online. So, there are at least four different components that are driving costs up, inflation, labor availability, long-term interest rates, and what I would say zoning. The one that is most easily in our control, I think is the zoning. And if you look around the country, there are some regions where it's a lot easier to build. They still have inflation, they still have labor availability challenges, they still have the same interest rate environment, but the zoning piece actually can make a big difference on how much new supply you can bring online if if able to tackle it. I know it's not easy to tackle, cuz I'm part of the problem, uh, which I'm admitting to, uh, but it's, uh, some some regions do a much better job of that than others. Great. Thank you. Hello. Um, back when I was studying economics, Are we done echoing? I'm sorry. Why don't you turn it off and see if you can turn it back on. Thank you. Go ahead. Okay, can you hear me now? Perfect. Thank you. Um, so anyway, back to when I was studying economics in school, the standard was always that 5% was a natural rate of unemployment. And yet, we're experiencing a lower natural rate of unemployment today. Um, of course, it's not evenly spread across age demographics. And uh, that's especially challenging for those at the start of their careers here. Um, you know, coupled with the AI innovations we're seeing that are lessening the demand for those entry-level workers, I'm curious what, if anything, the Fed is doing to address this concern about a potential gap in entry-level cohort of, uh, citizens who aren't able to start and therefore build on their careers. So, it's a a great question. You know, you mentioned that when you were studying economics, 5% was considered the natural rate, meaning the lowest the unemployment rate can go before you start triggering inflation, you know, ballpark, is is essentially what that means. Prior to the pandemic, we got down to 3 and 1/2% unemployment with no inflation to speak of. And so, you know, what actually is maximum employment? How tight can you run the labor market? It's a great question and it and it's a moving it's a moving level that we're always trying to study. So, the the best thing that we can do at the Fed are two things we can do. One is we're we have a team of economists that are studying these issues to try to understand those dynamics. Uh and number two, we can try to do get inflation back down and then deliver as tight a labor market as we can consistent with keeping inflation back down. Like one of the great things about 2019 is we had a 3 and 1/2% unemployment rate and 1.6% inflation. That's a pretty darn uh Those are two nice uh statistics. It'd be great to be able to get back to that. So, we definitely want to get there. We're committed to doing our part. Now, we don't have any tools to target entry-level jobs or worker training. These things are really fiscal policy questions and challenges for local, state, and federal officials. The best thing that we can do is just bring our economic research to bear and then look to either businesses or education centers or elected officials to work together to try to uh to try to tackle that issue. We've got someone right back here, too. Oh, so go ahead, Jim. Are we on? Oh, there we go. Uh the chamber's focus on unshakable leadership this year. So, I'm going to take out of the the numbers and bring you um back in time a little bit. Back in 2008 there in the Great Recession, you were always Treasury um and the independence of the Federal Reserve is a topic that we're talking a lot about in our world today. And when you go back to '08, '09, and '10 uh and all the people Geithner and and uh um uh Bernanke and Paulson, even President Bush 43, was the independence of the Federal Reserve ever a topic of conversation or was that just table stakes? Like we're going to maintain independence. Treasury, we got to do something we got to do our responsibility. Congress, you got to do your responsibility. Just a little bit of historical perspective because you were on the other side of of the of the street at that time. Yeah, no, it was never a topic of conversation because it was table stakes. It was understood uh by both sides of the aisle and I think it's still understood by most leaders on both sides of the aisle how foundational an independent central bank is. Independent central bank doesn't mean unaccountable. You know, we are accountable to Congress. Ultimately, they created the Fed. They oversee the Fed. But that means that we do not we at the Fed do not make our interest rate decisions based on short-term political calculus. And that was absolutely understood. I worked um I was appointed by President Bush. I served briefly under President Obama as well. It was never a topic of conversation because it never needed to be. Thank you so much. That was actually a very good question especially with regard to the theme. So well done. Um I am very curious about the wage uh growth and K economy. Um you had mentioned earlier about um there are certain wages or maybe you can talk on the industries that are slowing or growing and in particular how Minnesota compares to other states or regions. Thank you. Yeah, I mean if you look at where most of the job growth has come over the last couple years, it's really been healthcare focused. And many healthcare jobs, I mean it depends. Healthcare incorporates a lot. It's doctors and nurses on the top end and it's uh more you know, more entry-level service workers uh on the entry level end. And I think they're probably experiencing very different outcomes based on what their wages that they're seeing and their availability of finding those specialized skills in some cases. I think Minnesota looks like looks a lot like the rest of the country in this regard. You know, we have By the way, I didn't mention this. Each of the 12 Reserve Banks has a board of directors of local business and civic leaders. Our chair, Paul Williams, many of you know, is our chairman right now. Uh he's been on our board for 6 years or 5 or 6 years. Um another one of our board members is uh Andrea Walsh, the CEO of HealthPartners. Uh and Andrea shares with us a lot about what's happening in the healthcare sector and the economic challenges that so much of healthcare is facing. Um you know, the their customer base, the populations they serve have their own economic challenges. The reimbursement rates for Medicare and Medicaid are not keeping up with the inflation that the hospitals are experiencing. So, many hospitals are uh facing a lot of pressure. That bleeds over to your question because healthcare's where most of the job growth has come from. And so, if this big sector of the economy is feeling this great economic pressure, you know, what does that ultimately mean for the wages that they're able to pay and for the jobs that they're able to create? And when you go outside of the Twin Cities, there's consolidation taking place, you know, with the rural hospitals closing uh and consolidating, which creates another another dimension of challenges. So, um I think the the folks on the lower end of the economic distribution have been feeling pressure for a long time, and I think that that is continuing. Hi, I'm Yolanda Pearson, and I lead the Minnesota Black Chamber of Commerce. When you think about the underrepresented small businesses, what role does the Fed play in policies that impact them, such as access to capital, growth indicators, uh you know, from ethnic cultural standpoint for chambers? Well, we have a uh group within our bank called our community development and engagement group. The leader of that is actually here, Alene Shurumoff. We do a lot of outreach in the nonprofit communities all across our region to understand what are the challenges that they're facing, what are the opportunities that they see. We do economic research to try to shine a light on some of the barriers to people getting access to economic prosperity. But going back to what I said earlier, we don't have any tools to target individual groups or individual sectors. Our tools are blunt. You know, we can work at the economy as a whole level. Uh but it helps us understand like when 2016, 17, 18, 19, a lot of times the Fed thought we were at maximum employment. But when I would go out across Minnesota and I would go into minority communities and they would say, "Hey, we're looking for work." That made me think, "Okay, we're not really at maximum employment." cuz there are people here who want to work who just don't have a chance. So, why don't they have a chance? So, hearing from different community groups can help us even when we make our broad-brush national recommendations. But then the research that we do can really help hopefully equip fiscal policy makers with the tools that they need to design programs uh to help their own constituents. Thank you. This kind of builds on that question a little bit. I work for Minnesota Opera and I, you know, thinking about the vitality of downtown St. Paul and Minneapolis, I think that we see that a lot of the vitality is driven by the arts and entertainment space. I'm curious where where does arts and entertainment, when we talk about the economy, fall into this? Like have you ever had cultural members on the board? Have you ever done studies about the return on investment in investing in the arts because of all of the effect that it has on local restaurants and businesses? And where does that fall? You know, I'm not aware of specific research that we've done, but there there's 12 Federal Reserve banks and hundreds of researchers. So, I I don't want to say that it has not never been done. I'm not aware of direct research that's been done on arts and the economic impact of arts, but it might exist. We do have various advisory boards that help us B serves on one that helps us keep our fingers on the pulse of what's happening here. And we have had people in the entertainment and cultural sectors represented there. You know, for example, when COVID hit and arts venues and museums were massively impacted by that and had to restructure their operations, they that they gave us insight into what's happening into employment in those sectors and their ability to open and continue to operate. And so, I would say we have informal and formal ways of trying to figure out what's happening in these sectors, but it is admittedly it has not been a major area of research for us the way say housing has been or health care has been. You know, health care 18% of GDP, it's just such a huge presence in our economy that ends up drawing a lot of our research attention. Oh, thanks. Um I'm a lender at a local community bank and I recently had a borrower call me wants his rate lowered. Wrong environment for that, but he mentioned I can't wait till Trump gets his guy in to the Fed. And my understanding is he's the spokesman and just one more vote. Does the chairman have any more sway or what's the how much weight can he carry in a meeting? So, the the chair of the Federal Reserve has a lot of influence. Um the chair sets the agenda. What are the topics we're going to talk about? What are the types of things that we're going to be considering in this deliberation? But when it comes down to a vote, the chair is one of 12 voters. And so, a new chair coming in, whoever the chair is, whatever the environment is, will have to persuade his or her colleagues that this is the best course of action. And this is a group of people who are very analytically driven, very focused on trying to get it right to achieve the goals that Congress has given us. We're not perfect. We do make mistakes, but we are trying to get it right. And the person with the best ideas, who's most persuasive of the merits of those ideas, is ultimately going to be effective. And so, um no matter who the chair is, they're going to have to bring the committee along. And I don't think that that's changing. Hi. Um Robert Freeman from Comstock. So, first of all, Andrea Walsh used to be my boss. I'm glad that you're listening to her. Um so, the federal the national deficit has increased or doubled in size from in just 10 years from 20 billion to about 40 Oh, sorry, 20 trillion to about 40 trillion now. And Congress doesn't really seem to be equipped to do anything about it. So, what is the Federal Reserve's role in kind of bringing some fiscal leadership to our nation? So, the Fed's role uh has no role in bringing fiscal leadership to our nation. This is purely the domain of the fiscal authorities, which is Congress and the executive branch. Uh we are at it running at about 100% of debt to GDP now. And if you look at the forecast, for example, the Congressional Budget Office forecast this, it's going to go grow to the moon. It's just going to skyrocket over the next few decades, driven by our demographics. Most of our what we call entitlement programs are funded by current workers paying for current retirees. And as we have fewer children than prior generations, that ratio goes in the red, and then the deficit takes off. So, our fiscal authorities, our elected leaders, have to come together and decide, do they want to raise taxes? Do they want to cut benefits? Do they want to embrace more immigration? Those are the three levers that you can balance this. It will have to be balanced over time. It will have to be normalized, but it's not the Fed's role. The last thing I'll just say is, what is the danger zone? We're at 100% of debt to GDP. Many countries have gotten into trouble at this level or less. But some countries have gone way beyond it. Japan has twice as much debt to GDP and has been able to fund itself just fine. And so, what's the danger zone? I don't know. And nobody knows for sure. And right now the US is by far the most competitive economy in the world. I don't see that changing in the immediate future. Uh but, you know, could it change over time? It could change over time. We have time for about two more questions. Thank you for being here today. Um I'm also a community banker here lending to small businesses and investors alike. Question I have would be what advice would you give to business owners or folks like myself that interact with business owners to see through the noise when it comes to inflation. I think there's a lot of gamesmanship that can happen with a lot of the information that's put out publicly. I think that happens on both sides of the aisle. So again, what advice would you give to those of us that want to be able to speak with clarity and just actual understanding? I mean, I would say on inflation um what I feel most confident in is that we are dead serious about getting inflation back down to our 2% target. We take this as seriously as we take anything. What's been hard is that the economy keeps getting hit with these what we call supply shocks, which push up inflation. It's like a big wave hitting us and we're trying to get our get ahead of the wave and and another wave is hitting us. Hopefully there are no more waves to come and then we can the Strait of Hormuz can get reopened and we can get on our way back down to our 2% inflation target. But it might be that there are other waves to come that we just cannot foresee. And so, I mean, one of the challenges all businesses face is how do you make decisions in the face of this kind of uncertainty? It's really hard. And so, know that we're committed to getting inflation back down to our 2% target in a reasonable period of time, but also plan for a wide range of outcomes if the global economy is just more vulnerable to these shocks, as we call them, then we all just need to be prepared for that. And artificial shocks. You talked about starting the year with a certain sense of certainty certain sense of certainty that's changed artificially and certainly unexpectedly. I mean, I'll leave other let others opine on that. I mean, COVID was certainly unexpected. You know, we do we do scenario planning all the time for what are things that can go wrong, what might hit us. I can tell you COVID was not on our map of risks might that might hit the economy, nor was massive supply chain disruptions coming from COVID, nor was the Iran war. So, nor was Russia-Ukraine. I mean, there's a bunch of stuff that is happening that we're just having to react to. Do you have one final question? Up here? Please. How do you think AI and automation will reshape the labor market, and how is the Fed preparing for that? Yeah, this is another example of something we're studying a lot, but I don't have a lot of confidence in knowing how it's all going to look 5 years from now or 10 years from now. I do think AI is real. I think that businesses I talk to every day are finding new use cases either doing more with less or doing things they could not do previously. So, I'm excited about it. I mean, I think this could boost productivity over the long term, but which jobs are most affected by it? I think it's going to be a long time, you know, before we really know that. I heard some anecdote, and I need to dig in to see if this is real, but 4 or 5 years ago we heard that all radiologists were the ones that were going to be immediately affected by this because a computer can read a CAT scan or an X-ray scan way better than a human can and not make mistakes. Allegedly, four or five years in with demand for radiologists has gone up, not down. So, you know, who knows? If something reduces the cost of production, you might just demand more of that thing that you're producing, not less of it. And so, I think there's a lot um it'll lead to a lot of change. And I think if anybody says they have confidence and they know exactly what it's going to look like, uh that's the person I'd be most skeptical of. All right. Thank you so much. Thank you for, as always, a great conversation. Thank you for having me. I really appreciate it. &gt;&gt; Yeah, right. &gt;&gt; [applause] &gt;&gt; Thank