Well, good morning everyone. Uh, I was a little bit worried when I pulled in at 7 a.m. There was a lot of snow out there and uh, but I knew this uh, hearty crowd would show up in great force. So, thanks for coming out and thanks for Shannon for all your leadership in the in this great region. So, so happy to be here. Uh, President Kashkari, thank you for making the time to join this event and and I think the audience is looking forward to your insights. Would you like to start with some opening comments? &gt;&gt; Sure, Jim. Well, first of all, thanks everybody and please call me Neil. Uh, this will be a lot more fun for me if we make this a casual conversation. It's great to be back at this event. This is a terrific event. As you just heard in the introduction, this region is covered by the Minneapolis Fed. And so, our jobs are to understand what's happening here in our local economy. And then I go back to Washington DC every six weeks for FOMC meetings, meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee where we set interest rates for the nation. And part of my job in those meetings is to represent what's happening here in our regional economy. So meetings such as this and yesterday we did a roundt with small businesses uh and and other events. Meetings like this give me information on the ground what you all are experiencing. So the more we make this interactive, the more you offer comments and questions, the more I can take away from this. And so I really appreciate the opportunity to visit with you. Just very quickly, you all know coming out of the pandemic, we had very high inflation and we all felt it. You felt it in your businesses, you felt it at the grocery store. Inflation has come down quite a bit. By the way, we measure it. It's running at somewhere around 2 and a half to 3% inflation. Somewhat affected by the fact that tariffs went up a lot last year, but that's probably a short-lived uh event. I mean, it's like prices go up, but they shouldn't keep going up from there. At the same time, the labor market has remained pretty resilient. The unemployment rate got down to as low as around three and a half nationally. Now, it's up around 4.3%. So, it's it's a softer labor market than it was a year or two ago. But, as you look out across the country, the job market seems pretty pretty good, decent to pretty good. So, we're we're trying to balance off. You'll hear us talk about a dual mandate. We want to get inflation at 2% and we want to have as many Americans working as possible. And sometimes we have to trade these things off. And so right now we're missing or we're close on both. And we've cut interest rates a bunch in the last couple years. My guess is we're pretty close to neutral on where our monetary policy is. But ultimately we need to see where does inflation go. Does it come all the way back down to 2%. What happens to the unemployment rate? Does it keep going up or does it level off or does it come back down? That's ultimately what I think will guide our decisions going forward. But I'm excited to be here and excited to hear from you, Jim, and and all of the folks in the audience. &gt;&gt; Well, thank you. And again, just a reminder, please send your questions in and we'll we'll try to get to as many as possible. But maybe building upon that, uh, and the Fed's role in the economy. Talk about the actions the Fed takes that directly impact this room. How do the things you think about every single day impact how we're going to live our lives? &gt;&gt; Sure. Well, we move. If we think that inflation is too high and we need to bring inflation down, the central bank will raise interest rates. If we think that the economy is limping along and we need to give it a boost, typically the central bank will cut interest rates. Now, the interest rate that we move up and down is an overnight interest rate that banks lend to each other. So, why do you care about that? I mean, the truth is you don't. But it has some effect on longer term rates. So ultimately, it has some effect on what mortgage rate you end up paying. If you go out to get a 30-year mortgage, there's a chance that our monetary policy moving up and down will affect those mortgage rates. It'll affect the rates that you pay on your credit card balances if you keep credit card balances. Those will go up if we raise interest rates. So by raising interest rates, we make it more expensive for American families and businesses to borrow money, which is a way of tapping the brakes gently on the economy. And by cutting rates, we released the break. And in a sense, you could be even tapping the gas to make it to say, "Hey, now is the time to go out and borrow." Mortgage rates went way down, for example. So, you know, during the pandemic, interest rates were basically at zero. Our interest rates, you could go get a 30-year mortgage for something like 3%. So, a flood of people both bought homes and refinanced their mortgages. That was partly in response to the economic decisions that we made. Now, 30-year mortgage rates are closer to 6%. And so, I hear a lot from families saying, "Hey, I can't afford to sell my home because I've got a 3% mortgage. I can't trade that in for a 6% mortgage. That makes no sense." And so, this does have real effect on everybody uh at the end of the day. &gt;&gt; Well, great answer. Um I'm going to surprise you with something here real quick. Uh I did a little Googling uh before I came here, so if it's on Google, it must be true. Uh, the most fascinating thing I took away from Google. Uh, so a fun fact about Neil was that you were once named people's sexiest man alive. &gt;&gt; That's not true. All right. That is, you know, we did a prep call and this was not in the prep call. I just want to point that out. &gt;&gt; I didn't mean to embarrass you. So in when I back 20 almost 20 years ago I was at the US Treasury Department and I was overseeing the TARP program the troubled asset relief program when we had to stabilize the financial system and there was an issue of People magazine and I was on like page 300 in a little tiny picture. So um let's let's move on. Thank you. &gt;&gt; We got to have a little fun. Uh it's a part of our core values at Old National. um you know thinking more specifically about the economy um and and how it translates to right here in this region and and Fargo and and North Dakota. Tell me your thoughts and you were at you had a business roundt with a bunch of business leaders yesterday. What are you hearing about the economy here in this region &gt;&gt; overall? I mean it's it's mixed. It's very sector specific, right? A has been under pressure for many years that continues to be under pressure. Healthc care has unique challenges all around the country including here. I heard from some manufacturers that are doing better and doing reasonably well. I heard from some services industries that are doing well. So it is very sector specific. Overall I heard uh excuse me cautious optimism that hey the the year ahead the next couple years looks pretty good. I will say this though something different I heard whenever I come to North Dakota and I've been in Minnesota for 10 years. I come here at least once a year if not twice a year to North Dakota. This part of America is structurally short of workers. Like the over I mean I hear about affordable housing. I hear about affordable child care and I hear about we can't get the workers that we need. Yesterday for the first time in 10 years I heard businesses in North Dakota tell me we're fully staffed. That that is a notable difference to what I normally hear. And it, you know, I don't want to overreact to it, but that makes me think, okay, this 4.3% national unemployment rate. You know, you could look at 4.3 as a low unemployment rate historically or one that's almost a point higher than it was a couple years ago. Makes me cautious that maybe the labor market is not as sound as some of the the statistics would imply. Well, that's a great leadin to an audience question here, which is uh data is often a snapshot in time and retrospective. How does that impact policy? Is there a way we could be more forward-looking as it relates to data and I guess decision- making by by &gt;&gt; Well, we try, you know, so each of the 12 reserve banks has research departments of PhD economists who are constantly looking at all the data and using the data that we have historically and currently and trying to make predictions about the future. And we're always running different experiments to see how do we get a better sense of where the economy is headed because we know if we raise interest rates today or we cut interest rates today, it does not generally have an immediate effect. It might take a few months, it might take a year or more to fully feed through the economy. And so we need to be forward-looking and we try to be forward-looking. So we're always looking for better indicators of where the economy is going rather than just anchoring ourselves to historical data. So we look at all of the above to try to get a sense of where the economy is going. And by the way, conversations like this and visits like this also feed into that process to get a sense of are people feeling optimistic or are they feeling pessimistic. So yes, we do use backward-looking data as an input into our assessment of the economy, but we make many many many efforts to look ahead at where the economy is going to be six months from now, a year from now, and two years from now. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Um something really topical and I saw this yesterday. Uh Kevin Hasset uh on CNBC offered some criticism of a New York Fed study on tariffs. Do you have thoughts you wanted to share about that? &gt;&gt; Sure. You know, I mentioned all 12 reserve banks have independent research departments that are always studying the economy and sometimes people put out results that point one way and another reserve bank will put out results that point the other way. This is how we're trying to get better and learn about the economy by having this breath of opinions. I thought that director Hassid's comments though, you know, he went went on and he said that the he disagreed with the results and the researchers should be punished or they should be disciplined for their conclusions. Um I think this is just another step to try to compromise the Fed's independence. Uh over the last year, we've seen multiple attempts uh to try to compromise the Fed's independence, including in December when the Department of Justice served a subpoena to the board of governors over some building expenses. Um it's really about monetary policy that you know we are doing our very best to make the best assessment of the economy based on data and analysis. If you look all around the world, every advanced economy in the world has an independent central bank. The reason they have an independent central bank is because politicians of conservative and liberal &gt;&gt; would rather have monetary policy that serves their political needs in the moment. And what economies all around the world have learned is that monetary policy decisions, the the people are better off over the long run if monetary policy is based on data and analysis, not on short-term political gains. And I know that my colleagues at the Fed and I are committed to continuing to make the best decisions we can. We're not perfect. We don't get it all right, but we're going to do our best to make the best decisions we can based on data and analysis and not let anything else distract us from that. Well, there was a question that came in from the audience and I think you answered it pretty well, but it says, "How are you able to remove politics as a part of your decision-making in a very loud political environment?" &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, it's a great question. The louder the political noise gets turned, the more we stick to what are our goals. So, Congress created the Federal Reserve in 1913. Congress passed a law called the Federal Reserve Act that created the Federal Reserve system. And over time, Congress has given us our assignments. They've told us, Fed, you go deliver maximum employment and stable prices. So, as many Americans are working as possible, and what we've defined stable prices as 2% inflation. So, the louder the noise gets turned up, the more we hug the mast of what is our mission. Our mission is maximum employment and stable prices. And just continue to double down on just focus on that. and then we're able to tune out the noise and I think we've done it pretty well. &gt;&gt; Uh this is a great question from the audience as well. Uh I just got back from a two-day board meeting with our board of directors and uh a lot of the topics centered around AI. So how is the Fed using AI uh with with respect to p predictive decisions and what's your stance on uh AI today? &gt;&gt; Well, I'm optimistic about AI today. You know when I talk to businesses especially larger businesses almost every business I talk to says that they are using it in some way and finding real benefits from it. You know I always I like to joke it's only partially a joke. You know if I if I asked you raise your hand if you have used AI chat GPT Gemini one of these tools in the last week and I bet most hands will go up. A lot of hands have gone up. Now raise your hand if you've bought or sold something with Bitcoin. Okay, crypto's been around for more than a decade and it's utterly useless. AI has not been around very long and people are using it every day. And so this is demonstrating to me that this thing is real and it has real long-term potential for the US economy as opposed to crypto. And so I'm excited about AI. I'm bullish. I think it could be a boost for productivity in the next five years, in the next 10 years, maybe and beyond. In terms of the Fed, we are very cautious about it for our own use because of confidentiality reasons. Like we can't put in, you know, I'm not going to go into chat GPT and say, "Hey, what do you think we should do with monetary policy?" Because that's going to go into the ether, right? So, we've got very strong guard rails around how we use it. But our researchers, our independent researchers are using it in their research, but we're not letting any confidential Fed data get into the system because we don't know where it's going to end up going. Wow, great great information there. Um, you know, you you're building on a question that I had on my my ask list, um, which was around payment innovations and, um, things like stable coins, uh, cryptocurrencies, as you said, been around for a while, but stable coins are evolving very quickly. Old Nationals is working on a a network for tokenized deposits. What are your thoughts on payment innovations and how is it going to help the average American? Let's set aside crypto as its own asset class, but tell me your thoughts on on current payment innovations. I mean, I want to ask you that question because I hear these words and I like it's just a it's like a buzzword salad and I always ask people I say, "Okay, what can I do with the stable coin that I can't do with Venmo today?" I could send any one of you $5 with Venmo or PayPal or Zel. So, what is it that this magical stable coin can do? And then I get a buzzword salad answer blah blah blah tokenized deposits blah blah blah. Like, what does it actually do for your consumer? So, let me ask you, you're going to roll this out for old national consumers. What can old national consumers do with this new thing that they can't do today? &gt;&gt; I I you're you're absolutely right. I think oftent times we're building products in search of a business case. And I think the best business case that that I have heard of that that could make some sense is crossber payments, moving money with less friction and less cost. Uh today's current rails, there's a there's a little bit more friction, a little bit more cost to it, but those are things we could also fix on our own. I agree with you 100%. I can send you money right now and you can receive it uh you know darn near real time. Yeah. Right. Uh and this is maybe a faster version of that. Uh but I'm a big believer that we need to keep these payment systems with inside the financial services systems and and keep those in the deposit realm because once they start leaving uh the deposit realm and going to to other third parties, they're not going to be available to be lent in markets like Fargo and other places like that. So I'm I'm very cautious about stable coins and other things. I think it will put up pressure on the economy because banks will lend less. &gt;&gt; But you know, but even if you go the crossber route, so when I push people on how is this useful, they very quickly have to admit it's not useful in America. It's useful to send money to another market or for customers in another country. And then I push them on that. Okay, so my wife was born in the Philippines. She's a US citizen, but her family's in the Philippines. So, if I want to send my father-in-law money to buy groceries, they say, "Oh my gosh, it's so costly to do it today with this g- whiz crypto stuff, you could do it instantly." But then I still say, "How does he buy groceries with it?" Right? &gt;&gt; So, he gets something in his account in Manila. How does he buy groceries with it? Well, you still got to convert it to the local currency. That's still expensive. Well, no. Then they say, "No, no, no. Well, if the grosser also uses it, then he can buy." So what they're really saying is if everybody in the world uses the same currency or the same payment platform, all these frictions go away, but all these other countries are not going to abandon their own monetary policy. So you know, when it comes to anything about crypto or stable coins, ask the most basic questions and don't settle for word salad nonsense answers. Make them really explain how this thing actually works. And whenever I do that, there's just nothing there. Great thoughts. Appreciate that. Um, here's another fun fact. Uh, and he did share this with me in the prep call. Uh, Neil is a a devoted Cleveland Browns fan. Uh, so you I I grew up &gt;&gt; now. You've just torched my credibility to the extent I had any credibility. It's gone. &gt;&gt; Well, I grew up a Lions fan. We finally had a season here, so we're so happy for that. Uh, but uh, but I've shared &gt;&gt; I grew up in Northeastern Ohio, so it's in the blood and it's I can't do anything about it. Um, this is a question from the audience. It's a little bit long, so I'll try to get through this here. But you mentioned that tariffs are temporary, yet we've seen some countries change behavior over the long term. Canada, for example, under Mark Kerry has played hard ball in the face of sustained volatility in the relationship with the US. Is there a role for the Fed to help regions like this one navigate uncertainty coming out of Washington? &gt;&gt; I mean, I wish there were. I think the answer is unfortunately there's not much we can do. Our remmit is monetary policy. And it's not even monetary policy just for North Dakota. We don't set a different monetary policy for North Dakota and for California and New York because we all use the same dollar. We're all part of the same economy. And so we have to set monetary policy for the country as a whole. And then there's all the other policies that are out there that affect us. Fiscal policy. How much are we taxed? Who gets taxed? What does that money get spent on? Then you've got tariffs and trade policy. Those are all outside the remmit of the Fed. We don't have it's not our job and we don't have any ability to influence that and so nor should we. So that is really the job of of elected leaders to represent this region and in that electoral process in Washington uh and that policy process in Washington. All we do the only interaction we would have with that is we do research like when policies change when a tax policy changes or tariff policy changes we want to understand what does that mean for the US economy. So, we will do research and publish our research of what do we think that this means. Uh, but we're not trying to weigh in on, hey, should they do this or not? Those are political decisions for our political system. Thank you. Uh, there's one uh from the audience here. With the cost of H1B visas increase exponentially and the lack of workforce in the trades, do you anticipate slowdown in the growth of this said construction sector, but I think it could be a lot of sectors coming uh this summer with a lack of skilled workers? &gt;&gt; I mean, it's certainly a a challenge. We know that immigrants have filled a lot of construction jobs historically. Uh and so, you know, immigration, this was a big policy change in the last few years. You had massive immigration in the prior administration and now basically net zero immigration roughly uh last year and ongoing right now. So this is a big change in availability of these workers to fill the jobs that they were filling. And so I would expect it to have some effect on the construction industry. And you know you go around you say well why is why are homes so expensive? Why is affordability such a challenge? Why have we not built more homes? like we are structurally short of housing across the country. That's why things feel so unaffordable. You know, interest rates are part of it, but I think a fairly small part of it. Uh it's zoning restrictions that are local. I even heard in North Dakota yesterday and I said I thought that North Dakota was the low regulation state and yet I heard examples of zoning restrictions that are causing uh home prices to be higher here than they otherwise needed to be. But then cost of materials and cost of labor. I mean those are the big inputs that go into building a new home or building an apartment building. And so if we have fewer workers to build apartment buildings and homes uh then on the margin there fewer of them will get built and or they and or they will cost more money. And of course we also know about the massive data center construction that is going on. I think that that is drawing capital to that sector but I also think that that is drawing workers to that sector to build those things. And you know, people say, "Oh, I'm worried that my skilled electricians are not going to be available because some of the data centers are going to be able to pay more." And that's, you know, this is life in a market economy. If there's a major investment in one sector of the the economy, it's going to draw resources from other sectors of the economy. &gt;&gt; And building on the last couple of questions, uh can you talk about the Federal Reserve's decision to decrease interest rates over the last 24 months? &gt;&gt; Well, inflation was um very high. I mean, we all saw it, right? depending on how you measure it, seven, eight, even nine percent coming out of the pandemic. So, we raised interest rates aggressively. We did it to bring inflation back down. Now, if you go back and say why did inflation take off so much in the first place? Partly, it took off because of supply chains were screwed up because the services economy during the pandemic was shut. So, we were all buying goods because we couldn't go out to restaurants. So, we bought more goods. So, and those goods uh supply chains were screwed up. And then you had Russia invading Ukraine, which sent a commodity shock wave all around the world. So, it was a confluence of events that sent these prices through the roof. And then we raise rates aggressively to try to tamp demand down to help bring it back down. A lot of those supply factors got better and things have started to heal and inflation's been coming back down. So we cut interest rates as inflation started coming down while the labor market stayed remarkably resilient. When we raised rates as aggressively as we did, I thought we were slamming the brakes on the US economy. I was I've been pleasantly surprised or another way of saying I was wrong. I was pleasantly surprised that the economy was really resilient even in the face of our high interest rates. And the economy did pretty well even while rates were much higher. And so we said, "Okay, inflation's coming down. The labor market looks like it's hanging in there. We ought to cut interest rates because we don't need these high interest rates to bring inflation as far down anymore." And so it's just the the economy got better. The economy healed itself. That enabled us to bring rates back down. Not all the way to where we were before, but we've come down quite a wise. &gt;&gt; I'm going to try and use that line at home. I was pleasantly surprised. See how that goes over. Um well uh you've we've talked a little bit about the last 24 months and and thinking about rate changes there. Uh where do you see the 10-year Treasury yield uh for the rest of 2026? &gt;&gt; You know the 10-year Treasury. So we don't correct we don't directly um control the 10-year Treasury. The 10-year Treasury is set by the financial markets. And you could think about it as uh it's affected a little bit by our rates. It's affected by what people think inflation is going to be in the future. So, we do have an effect on that. If we keep inflation expectations down, that ought to show up in lower 10-year Treasury yields. And then it it's other preferences that investors have. But while we've cut rates, the 10-year Treasury has stayed really flat at around 4%. That tells me, now I'm going to get technical for a second. That tells me that what we consider the neutral interest rate is probably higher than it was before. like there's some interest rate that we can't directly measure that neither stimulates nor restrains the economy. We have to try to estimate what neutral is. And the neutral rate gets set by a balance of savings and investment. So your customers, your savers are balancing out people who want to build factories and apartment buildings and data centers. They're the demanders of capital. So somewhere supply and demand of capital, savings and investment find an equilibrium. Well, if there's a lot more investment going into data centers, hundreds of billions of dollars, even a trillion dollars that wasn't there five years ago, all else being equal, rates are going to be higher because that's how capital has to flow to that sector of the economy. And so, I don't have any forecast of where the 10-year yield is going. You know, my guess is it's been sitting pretty flat around 4% for reasons outside of the Fed. My best guess is it'll probably stay there. I mean, I don't see anything. I don't see what's going to change that, but you know, we'll see how things develop. &gt;&gt; Well, if we could all predict interest rates, we'd probably be doing different jobs than we have today. Um, while uh again, audience question here. While outside of the dual mandate, does the Fed consider direct or secondary impacts of monetary policy on Treasury rates and the payment or refinancing of our national debt? &gt;&gt; We do not. and that so it is the US Treasury and the Congress's job to decide how much to tax all of us, how much to spend, how much debt to then issue, and to figure out how they're going to finance the government. That's fiscal policy, purely fiscal policy. That's not our rem. We're not supposed to think about that. Uh we are supposed to think about monetary policy, which is what do we do with interest rates to stabilize maximum employment and stable prices, 2% inflation, and that's our remitt. And so we are making the best decisions we can to achieve that dual mandate. And then it's up to Treasury and the Congress to think about okay given where interest rates may go. Um what do they need to do in terms of balancing the budget or funding the government over time. I will say you know we affect the economy the Fed our forecast our horizon of the next two to three years. The fiscal policy decisions that are made tax and spending policies can affect the economy over decades. So we're we're short-term news, they are the long-term story. &gt;&gt; Uh so this is a question a little bit outside the Fed purview per se, but uh I was standing in line at the coffee shop yesterday morning and somebody wanted to pay by cash and I don't I don't pay by cash very often and they asked uh another worker, how am I supposed am I supposed to round up or round down? Uh you know, because we didn't have any pennies in the drawer. Um and the the question here is a practical issue, right? If you're running a coffee shop or or a small business, what are the greatest risk or downsides with a cashless society and an important one and we work on this one all the time in our organization? What does it mean for unbanked households? &gt;&gt; Well, it's a real challenge. I mean, that's um it is a it is a real challenge that there are unbanked households, bank people that do not have um a bank account. Literally, they didn't, you know, I grew up uh my parents were professionals. I grew up following my parents into the bank and kind of getting in line and I saw what they did with the tellers. So, I was never intimidated by a bank. You know, we had a conference at the at the Fed several years ago and a researcher showed the picture of a payday lender. So, if you don't have a bank account, people tend to turn to payday lenders which charge exorbitant fees. So, low-income folks who can't afford it end up paying the highest possible fees by going to some of these payday lenders. And so they're really it's really a bad situation when they could go to a bank and get much better service at lower fees. But if you I I I've never been into a payday lender. So they showed pictures of a payday lender like what the store looks like. It looks like McDonald's. Like they have a big board and they say you want chicken nuggets and you want this and it's all there very easy to interpret what they're offering and what the prices are. If I walked into your bank I bet it looks nothing like that. And if you've never walked into a bank before, you actually you walk in there and you're like, "What am I supposed to do? It's not at all obvious. It's all based on the implication that you already know what to do, what to ask for." And so it was like it was my eyes were opened of, okay, if I if I grew up outside of the banking system, actually, you know, you seem like a really nice guy, Jim's a good guy, I ought to just go to Jim. But if I walk into a traditional bank branch, it it does not at all tell me what I'm supposed to do here, what products that they offer where the payday lender does. And so that was just an eye openener for me that, you know, we need to bring people into our traditional banking sector so that they can get regulated products that are reasonably priced that meet their needs, uh, and not kind of dealing in the black market, so to speak. And so, um, it's a serious issue and, uh, I think we all have our work to do. &gt;&gt; Well, I'm really proud Old National, this not to be a plug for Old National because I'm sure all the financial services, uh, uh, group here has it in the in this region, too. But we created um some really great products to help with the unbanked issue. And we try to make it a friendly experience. Uh, in fact, we bring people outside from the teller line and put them up front to greet you when you come in the door so they can walk you through and navigate that. But if you know anybody that's looking for a banking product and and they're fearful about going to the bank, I guarantee every bank in this room has a product that can help them go from unbanked to banked and really reduce a lot of those fees and costs. So I I agree with you 100%. We got to get them in the traditional banking system and we also have mortgage programs to help them make that first home purchase with down payment assistance and things like that. So it's a really good good point. Um, another question for the audience here. What responsibility does the Federal Reserve have to ensure financial markets remain grounded in underlying economic fundamentals rather than reacting to primarily reacting primarily to policy signals? &gt;&gt; Well, you know, it's I find financial markets in some ways they're brilliant because they're always absorbing new information. In some ways, they overreact to whatever the latest information is. So, there's exuberance to pessimism to exuberance. And so I don't know financial markets kind of reflect all of us and all of the participants who are part of those financial markets and the the mass collective psychology and I don't know how to uh coach that any better. I think the best that we can do is be as transparent as we can be on what is the data that we're looking at what are guiding our decisions. The more we can inform people of that the more they can then look at that data themselves and draw their own conclusions about where the economy uh may be headed. I think the best thing is to make financial markets rule of law, transparency, confidence in the data that we are getting. Uh the data that companies put out, the data that the government puts out, make sure that we all have confidence that that's the best data available. Um I think that's you know markets can then adjust and take care of themselves. &gt;&gt; Um another fun fact, so when my team came to me and said you have this opportunity to to interview Neil, I said this is fantastic. and and my the immediate thing that came to my mind is the the famous Wall Street Journal article about after the financial crisis and and dealing with TARP. We were one of the first TARP recipients by the way. &gt;&gt; Uh when it was good and then we quickly paid it back. &gt;&gt; Um but uh you famously lived in a remote cabin in the woods in California with no running water and you spent time splitting logs and I think building a shed if I if I recall correctly. &gt;&gt; There was running water. Uh so yeah so after during I was a treasury for almost three years after that period I had had a home in the mountains in California and I basically moved there for nine months and kind of detoxed from my time in Washington DC before I went back to work and it was a it's a beautiful place I love being in the mountains and uh beautiful really nice contrast to Washington DC let me put it that way. Well, sexiest man alive. Uh, splitting wooden. Uh, and and a dog lover. Uh, that's another fun fact. &gt;&gt; I'm pretty sure the Federal Reserve supervises Old National Bank. &gt;&gt; Maybe I should have thought twice about some of these fun facts. Uh, I'm trying to keep things a little little snappier. Um, this is a a question. Um, Kevin Walsh is expected to be the next Fed chair. uh from your perspective, what might change and what might like to say the same under under his leadership? &gt;&gt; Well, I know uh Kevin Worsh, he was at the Fed when I was at Treasury during the financial crisis. He's very wellqualified to be Fed chair. Um I think he'll, you know, my expectation is he's going to get confirmed and then uh come in with his own ideas. He's been quite outspoken about some of the things that he doesn't think we've gotten right and some of the areas he'd like to take us. I think it'll be a great discussion and look forward to working with him and hearing his ideas. and you know we can always do better and if we can if we've got good ideas on how to improve things you know let's go take them forward and I think people are excited about that. &gt;&gt; Great. Um do you believe uh the current side of the Fed balance sheet distorts free market signals and if so what is the plan to normalize it without a market shock? Well, this is one of the topics that um Fed nominee Kevin Worsh has talked about that he thinks that he said that the size of the balance sheet is quite large relative to history. There are a bunch of technical reasons on why the balance sheet is the size that it is. One of the reasons that the Fed balance sheet is as big as it is is because demand for US physical dollars all around the world has grown, continues to grow because people trust the dollar. And so as demand for dollars continues to grow, our balance sheet is going to continue to grow. Uh that's probably not going to change. Another driver of our balance sheet is the fact that banks like Old National and big banks and all around the country uh want to hold reserves for their liquidity needs. That's partly driven by regulation. So it ends up being uh it's a confluence of reasons why the Fed's balance sheet is the size that it is. And I think that, you know, there are criticisms that maybe we're distorting financial markets, but we've shrunk our balance sheet quite a bit in the last few years. Uh, and I'm not sure that we could shrink it much further from here without making some other fundamental changes to the way the financial system operates. &gt;&gt; Uh, this one does make me nervous and it's a good question for the audience here. How is the US going to deal with the national debt and the massive deficit spending and how how does that impact our markets today? Well, if you look out over the long run, so if you look at the Congressional Budget Office, this is the nonpartisan group of economists that works for the US Congress. They forecast the debt and just based on laws that are on the books today, the debt is going to grow astronomically over the next several decades. Mostly, it's driven by demographics, which is most of our entitlement programs are funded by current workers paying for current retirees. And as our society ages, we have fewer current workers and we have more retirees and so the debt goes up and up and up and up. And that's just math. So ultimately, this is a question for our political system to decide. What do you want to do? You know, you can raise the retirement age, you can cut benefits, you could raise taxes, or you could try to change the demographic profile. So immigration has been a a big driver of our demographics over American history. And the question I think going forward is to what degree is immigration going to be that driver or that tool again going forward so that we have more current workers to then pay for those current retirees. And so ultimately we as a country have to get our arms around this. Um it'd be great if we could get our arms around this before there's any kind of fiscal crisis. One of the challenges I've learned in our country is that we're much better. We're really good at dealing with a crisis when it hits us. It's really hard to get agreement in advance of a crisis. And so that's the conundrum that our elected leaders need to wrestle with. &gt;&gt; Great observations. Um how is the Federal Reserve currently assessing conditions in the agricultural sector? Obviously incredibly important topic particularly in this region. And what is your outlook for the farm economy? You know, the farm economy has has suffered. It's been under first of all pressure for many years now with simply low crop prices which has mostly been driven by large global supply. Uh that doesn't seem to be changing. I mean maybe you know people talk about you want a bad weather event in somebody else's country ultimately is how you get the local high crop prices. That dynamic seems to be enduring. On top of that you have tariffs and trade. I did hear that the deal that the administration made with China. I mean, we've got a um the CEO of uh CHS is on my board of directors, Jay Debertine, you know, a expert. I asked him, I said, "Jay, are is China buying American soybeans?" He said, "Yes, that they are seeing uh you know, maybe not as I don't remember exactly what he said, but I got the sense of not as much as we would love, but they are actually buying American soybeans now. So, it is having some effect. And so I've heard from Jay and from others some cautious optimism about some of those negotiations that have taken place. You know, but it's been a sector that's been under pressure for quite a while. Uh and you know, these are just tough fundamentals. You know, commodity markets are tough when you're competing all around the world and other countries are bringing more supply online. It's just a challenging environment uh that I I don't, you know, I don't make light of in any way. &gt;&gt; Uh maybe something on the little lighter side here. Um I heard you're a big fan of history. I am the truth. Okay. Who is the most underappreciated character or or in American history? &gt;&gt; Maybe somebody you admire. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Somebody I admire a lot who's um I think quite underappreciated is our former president Ulyses Srant &gt;&gt; who led the fight to win the Civil War uh as General Grant who was the chief uh general in charge of the Union Army. Amazing, amazing, amazing story of somebody who basically failed in many aspects of his life, but he could do one thing. He could lead men in battle. And like the story of the Civil War is a story of President Lincoln searching for generals who could lead. And he finally found his man in Grant. Uh, and it's just a remarkable story how uh he led and won. So I named my So my wife is um uh quite accommodating. Let me say this. Uh so when we were having our first child, we our older child was a seven-year-old girl. When we were expecting her, we knew it was a girl. Um I said, "Boy, it's too bad we're not having a son because then we name him Ulisses." And my wife, whose English is a second language, she said, "Ulisses? I kind of like that name for a girl." And I said, "Done. Let's let's move on." So her her name is Ulisses uh but we call her Julie like Julie without the J. And uh it actually works really really well. And then our son is five. And we had to find another really historically significant name. Um and Lincoln was a beautiful name but a common more of a common name. And I wanted a historically significant unusual name and we couldn't beat Ulyses Srant's right-hand man uh Tecumpsa Sherman William Tecumpsa Sherman. So we named him Tecumpsa. And that's where my wife was really accommodating of my uh of my ideas. So we our children are named after the two top Civil War generals. &gt;&gt; You've given me lots of life advice today. I'm I'm gonna go home and uh thank my wife for being very accommodative uh to to me. So uh I'm sure she'll appreciate that. Um you know, one last question here from the audience as we close out today and look forward to 2026. What's your most important piece of advice for financial and business leaders and nonprofit leaders? I know we have a number of universities here as they navigate the evolving economic and policy environment. &gt;&gt; Focus on what you can control. This is I mean this is you've all heard it before, but this is what I tell staff at the Minneapolis Fed, what I tell my fellow Fed presidents. There's so much noise in the world. There's so much noise around you. Focus on well, I guess two things I'll say. Focus on what you control and really be disciplined about what are the most important things. Focus on the most important things you can control or you can have some influence over and don't worry about everything else. And I think if you do I my advice is if we do that if we all do that we will be all right and we'll be able to navigate this uncertain environment whether it's AI or it's geopolitics or whatever we'll be able we'll do we'll get through it and I'm confident of that. By the way, I'd say this last thing I'll say. As many challenges as we feel like we have here at home in America. I would not trade places with any other country in the world by miles. I mean, we have so much going for us. It's like the more I see us sometimes, you know, wrestling over politics here and there and whatnot and getting heated, it's actually because things are going so well that we're able to fight over the smallest things. Uh, and so it's a nice reminder for me like when I go abroad and I say, "Wow, uh, we really have a lot going for us here at home in America." Um, yeah, we have our challenges, but we have a heck of a lot going for us. And so, you know, don't forget about that. I try to remind myself of that. &gt;&gt; Amen. Many of us are very, very blessed. And I think the people in this room have a lot more in common than they do have differences with each other. And together, we can make real change here in this region and across our country. So, any last words in the last 20 seconds for the group here today? Well, this is a lot of fun, Jim. I really appreciate it. You made it unexpectedly fun. So, thank you for that. Uh, but I really appreciate you all inviting me back. This is this is a great event, and I always enjoy coming here, and uh I love visiting North Dakota, so uh I appreciate it. &gt;&gt; Great. Thank you all. &gt;&gt; Thank you.