Welcome everyone to today's Midwest Economic Forecast Forum. My name is Rose Oswald Polls and I am the president and CEO of the Wisconsin Bankers Association. It is my pleasure to welcome all of certainly our member bankers and their customers to this uh webinar today. And I am also excited to share that we have members joining from the states of Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, North and South Dakota. So bankers and their customers across the upper Midwest are certainly joining in today. We have a total number of hookups of over 275 plus uh other media and other outlets as well who are streaming this. So we always like to hold this economic forecast forum event in January each year. It's a great way to get a fresh perspective on the year as we start to look ahead over the coming months for banks and their customers across the upper Midwest. Uh we appreciate the sponsorship of today's forum from BK Financial Capital Markets and Whipley LLP. Um good associate members of WBA as well as partners with some of the other banking associations around the country as well. For today's program, we have two very experienced economists who are joining us today and I encourage all of you to take the opportunity through the chat feature to ask questions. I will be moderating the chat certainly um during both presentations. Our first presentation uh will be more of a fireside chat. So, welcome the Q&amp;A conversation. And with that, I'd like to begin by introducing our first honored guest, Federal Reserve Bank Minneapolis President and Chief Executive Officer Neil Qashqari. Mr. Qashqari is president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, one of the Fed's 12 regional banks. The Minneapolis Fed serves the public by pursuing a growing economy that works for all of us. And the bank's district includes largely a lot of the states I mentioned, Minnesota, the Dakotas, Montana, Northwestern Wisconsin, and the UP of Michigan, which really should just become part of Wisconsin anyway. Um, Neil serves as a member of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets the nation's monetary policy. Neil began his career as an aerospace engineer developing technology for NASA space missions. He later held a variety of roles in public service and finance, most notably as assistant secretary of the treasury during the 2008 financial crisis where he oversaw the troubled asset relief program. Neil and his wife Christine have two children, Ulie and Tecumsa, and a new Finland dog named Webster. So, please join me in welcoming President Qashqari. &gt;&gt; The floor is yours to start with. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Thank you, Rose. And thank you to all of your colleagues for inviting me. It's great to be back with you uh addressing you and addressing your members. Um I'll speak very briefly at the top and then I know you've got some questions and we'll get into our fireside chat. You know, these meetings are important to me because it helps give me input and my colleagues input into what you all are seeing in the economy. You know, you mentioned the states that we cover. It's a large geographic region. It's quite a diverse economic region. And our job is to monitor and understand what's happening in our regional economy. And then when I go back to Washington DC every six weeks for FOMC meetings or meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, part of what I'm doing in those meetings is sharing what's happening on the ground here in our region. Now, we can't set a different monetary policy for Wisconsin and for California and New York. We're all using the same dollar. So, it's one monetary policy for the country, but my job is to make sure that this region is represented in that deliberative process. And the way we get insight into what's happening in the region, part of it is I travel around the region with my colleagues and meet with bankers and business leaders and labor leaders. Uh we also have seminars like this where we get to answer questions but also hear from people on the ground. All of that combined with the local, state and federal data that we get helps us to uh paint a picture of where the economy is going. And obviously right now the economy is somewhat confusing. We have a labor market that is showing some signs of weakness and I know we're going to get into that. The unemployment rate is up from where it was a year ago, but it's ticked down a little bit in recent months down to around 4.4%. At the same time, inflation is still too high, but it is trending at least in the right direction. Well, you know, what do we make of the labor market and the inflation data? You know, we're going to get into this, I know, but it's conversations like this that help me to make sense of the confu at times confusing economic signals that we're seeing. we have to make calls on monetary policy and conversations like this with your members can really help. So, thank you for having me. I look forward to the discussion uh and hearing from you and from your members. &gt;&gt; Yeah, thank you again. We're really honored to have you here. So, um to begin with, uh let's talk about current national uh economic conditions. Uh the producer price index uh numbers came out increased 2% in November. year-over-year, uh, producer prices rose about 3% through November. Food prices appear to be flat. Energy prices jumped a bit. Um, in November, retail sales seemed positive. Um, and then the CPI number came out the other day as well. So, you know, what do you make of all that data? What do you think the current national economic conditions look like? &gt;&gt; Overall, the economy seems quite resilient. For the last couple years, we had expected and I had expected with our uh higher interest rates that we would see more of a slowing in the economy to bring inflation back down. That slowing really has not occurred the way I expected it to. The economy has proven to be more resilient and the American consumer broadly has proven to be more resilient and wanting to spend. You know, you'll hear a lot about, and I support this, that there's a K-shaped economy, which is higher income consumers are doing better and are driving more of the growth and more of the spending. I think that that's true. Overall, the economy seems quite resilient. So, the consumer has proven to be quite resilient. And then, of course, we've seen this huge investment into um artificial uh intelligence, into data centers, into electrical infrastructure. Those are two sources of strength in the US economy. So I my anticipation is that that is going to continue. The fact that those have been growing as strongly as they have makes me wonder how tight is monetary policy. I thought that monetary policy and our interest rate policy would be tapping the brakes more in the economy than is evident in the actual data. And so inflation is still too high. Uh the labor market is seems like it's gently cooling but it's more or less moving sideways. We've not seen a lot of layoffs, which is good, but we've also not seen a lot of hiring recently. It's more of a sideways moving labor market. And so, overall, the economy seems like it's doing pretty well, but there's some signs of fragility that are worth paying attention to. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think that is very true and certainly consistent with what I hear from our bankers across the state. Um, and and likely the same were we're were fairly similar with the other states that are on this call and people from those states as well. I do want to talk a little bit about tariffs. They obviously dominated a lot of the conversation in 2025. Wisconsin manufacturers who I routinely meet with as part of an economic circle of of different folks here um in the state um they obviously export a lot um so sentiment there has honestly been mixed. Some support the president's tariff policy and some have not supported it. So, you know, what data are you watching to determine the impact of tariffs on the economy through today? Looking ahead, are you concerned that tariffs could lead to persistent inflation? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, this is obviously, you said it right, for 2025, this was one of the most important economic developments that got a lot of attention. Other ones are important, too, but this got a lot of attention. And so, what do I look at? I look at first of all what's the announced headline tariffs as a policy matter and they've been very high at announcements and then there have been negotiations and then the headline tariff rates have been somewhat lower &gt;&gt; right &gt;&gt; then to look at what are the effective tariff rates because many businesses have rerouted their supply chains to go through countries that have lower tariffs there have been many exemptions and exceptions that have been applied so then we look at what do we think the effective tariff rate is and then we look at what is the actual tariff in terms of dollars collected at the border. Those are three different rates. And the dollars collected at the border as a percentage are much lower than the advertised headline tariff rates that were first announced. And of course, the dollars collected at the border is really what is impacting the economy right now, but it's been growing over time into into more of a steady state equilibrium that I think we're soon to be reaching. So that's one set of factors that we study. Another set of factors is okay, so businesses are paying the tariff. What are they then passing on to their customers? And we've seen slower pass through than I would have expected. Now, why has there been slower pass through? In some cases, businesses bought a lot of inventory in advance, anticipating tariffs, and they've been working down that inventory. I've heard of some very even small businesses buying inventory from abroad to insulate themselves from tariffs and there's been businesses trying to figure out how much can they pass on. I've heard businesses many businesses have said to me that January of this year would be a natural moment where they would then reset their pricing for the next year. So it may be that we see a price bump as relates to tariffs. And so that's another set of factors. What are consumers seeing in terms of goods price increases? And then the question is, do goods price increases lead to services or non-g goods inflation in other sectors of the economy? Because let's say you're a services business. Let's say you are a landscaping company or a snow plow company. Well, you actually do need some goods for your snowplows. Like if if your snow plows come from abroad and the price of snow plows goes up, you're eventually going to pass those costs on, at least some of those costs on to your snowplow customer. So even if you are a services business, goods inflation can still affect the pricing dynamics that you see. So all of this is complicated. All of this is taking longer to fully reveal itself as it works its way through the economy. And so on one hand, the good news is it has not been a gut touch to the economy like many people feared. The other hand is it may have longerterm effects than we realize just because it takes longer time for all of these adjustments to be made. &gt;&gt; Right. And I certainly also heard um business owners say that you know they're trying to not pass through the higher costs hoping they are truly temporary and you know it will disappear quick enough to allow them to still you know have a profit uh as well. So, to your point, they either bought a lot more and had some more inventory on hold to try to get ahead of that. You know, maybe they're choosing not to pass them through, but that isn't a long-term solution. So, it could be more persistent as we move forward for sure. And then of course I'll add to that Rose is that because you know a debate that many of my colleagues and I have been having is you should monetary policy respond to tariffs? If you believe the tariffs are a one-time price increase then economic theory would say we just ignore it. Don't respond to it. It'll be done in a year. But if it takes multiple years to work its way through and coming off the back of four years of elevated inflation, now all of a sudden we're looking at four, five, six, seven, maybe seven years of elevated inflation. And people ask us, well, is 2% still your target? Or are you actually okay with 3% inflation? And I'm here to say emphatically, no, 2% is our target. We're still committed to 2%. But if this goes on long enough, people are going to start to doubt how serious we are about that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's a fair point. Very true. Yeah. So, let's jump into the conversation about the Fed's inflation target at 2%. What is your forecast for the personal consumption expenditure inflation rate by the end of 2026? Uh and what again data points do you really focus on maybe more than others to help confirm um you know that inflation is on track? &gt;&gt; Well, let's look at inflation in three big categories underneath the overall. So you got headline inflation which is everything in the basket of what a typical American family buys. Then you've got core inflation where we separate out food and energy. Not because they're not important, they're really important. They're just volatile. So they don't give us much of a signal about where underlying inflation is going. So within core inflation we have goods inflation which is affected by tariffs because we buy a lot of goods from abroad. We have housing services inflation. So the effect of money that we all spend as in our families to provide a roof over our head. It could be rent. It could be our mortgage. It could be insurance and depreciation on our home. And then we've got non-housing services uh that we also buy. Now, of those, housing services inflation is the one that I've got the most confidence is, you know, is on track. Like, we can model based on where new rent growth is taking place, how long it takes new rents to work its way through the inflation index. And I've got a lot of confidence that even though home prices are high, even though affordability is a real challenge, the growth of rents, the growth of home prices is headed in the right direction. and the housing component of inflation is headed in the right direction. The two pieces that I've got less confidence in are goods inflation. You know, actually goods inflation started ticking up a year and a half ago, well before tariffs. So tariffs probably pushed up goods inflation, too, but goods inflation actually started going up ahead of tariffs. And we're not exactly sure why. And how persistent is that going to be? And then we've got non-housing services inflation, which is probably tied to wages. And as wage growth slowly cools, it ought to bring down um w uh non-housing services inflation over time. So those are the things that I'm paying a lot of attention to. I think inflation is heading down. Now, the question is, is it going to be at 2 and a half% by the end of the year? Something short of that or or something above that? I don't know. I don't have a lot of confidence in that. I don't believe we're going to wake up six months from now and see 4% inflation. I think that we've got a lot of confidence that inflation is on its way down. How slowly it's going to move down, that's the big question mark that I'm focused on. &gt;&gt; Right. It seems as though it's been fairly steady, right, over the last many months and and could certainly remain that way over the next several months. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Correct. Um, so couple questions that have come into the chat. Um, one is tied to housing here. So, with the recent announcement by Fanny and Freddy to purchase mortgages to drive down mortgage rates, when or why would the Fed choose to reinvest its own balance sheet runoff into mortgages versus Treasury securities? Is there a chance the Fed could embark on a strategy like the previous operation twist to drive down longer term rates? &gt;&gt; You know, we've uh been shrinking our balance sheet. We just stopped shrinking it recently and and announced that we're going to start growing it again just for monetary policy implementation. It's not QE. It's not trying to provide stimulus. It's just making sure that there are enough reserves in the banking system. you know when you know we have embarked on things like QE including the mortgage back security market as a active policy instrument of monetary policy. So once if if a economic downturn turn hits and the Fed cuts the federal uh federal funds rate to zero then the question is what more can we do to stimulate the economy that's when we have said let's go buy longerdated assets longerdated treasury securities longerdated mortgage back securities to provide more stimulus I don't see that anywhere in our immediate future in our near future of course never say never about some economic downturn that could hit the US economy but my outlook for the US economy is one of pretty good growth going forward and so I could not see any rationale for us embarking on QE or buying mortgage back securities in that environment. Uh I do know uh and by the way in normal times I think most of my colleagues and I have said we want to get to a treasury portfolio because mortgage back securities and whatnot that really is more in trying to stimulate the economy and in normal times when we're not trying to provide any kind of ordinary extraordinary stimulus there's no reason for us to be buying mortgage back securities. Now that's the monetary policy that's the Fed's role. I know the administration has announced a number of initiatives that it wants to pursue to try to stimulate the mortgage market and stimulate the housing market. That's fiscal policy. That's for them to decide on. I would just say as a macro matter, we study housing a lot because it really matters to families and to the economy. The biggest barrier for the housing market is supply. You know, I say this to Republican district, Democrat district, it doesn't matter. city, state, federal officials. Anything we can do to help get out of the way of allowing more supply to come online to build the homes and the units that families need that will help the housing market uh probably more than anything else. But I I will leave such fiscal policy decisions for the executive branch. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I think that's very true. Certainly here in Wisconsin, we do also try to focus a lot on how we can help improve housing affordability. and a lot of it does start at a very local level with zoning requirements and and restrictions and other things. So, um appreciate your thoughts on that though. Thank you. Another um banker who does a fair amount of multifamily lending, multif family housing, um noted that a lot of their borrowers are continue to be really concerned about, you know, inflation specific to high cost of insurance, high cost of taxes. you know, how do you assess those expenses um you know, in the context of looking at where inflation might be at? &gt;&gt; Well, the basket that we talk about, the inflation basket, the government economists who create this data look at what is a typical expense for a typical American household and things like insurance is included in the basket. So, those are very real costs and I hear the same thing that the banker who submitted the question here is and this is what's tricky for the Fed. You know, there's a lot of a lot of the surveys say that Americans are feeling economic hardship right now, especially middle class and lower income Americans. Well, to do Americans seem to be more optimistic on the economy right now. And when I talk to businesses that have big retail presence, they say that their middle class and lower income customers are spending in a manner consistent with a recession. They're pinching their pennies. They're trading down. They're looking for deals. And yet the unemployment rate is 4.4%. So why are so many American families feeling this economic pressure? Thankfully, the vast majority of them have not lost their jobs. I think it is because of inflation. And so that's a trick for the Federal Reserve. So if we said, "Hey, let's go cut interest rates to try to boost uh the labor market and boost families." Perversely, that might actually make the inflation problem worse. And then the thing that is causing that hardship for those families may not get better if we were to aggressively cut interest rates right now, even though it might help the labor market on the margin. And so, you know, we're in this tricky situation where monetary policy, you know, we really need to bring inflation all the way back down to 2%. So that we can get the economy in a more normal environment and people can feel good about their spending power and feel good about their economic prospects. But if we get too aggressive with interest rates, that could hurt the labor market. So this is where our our two goals are of stable prices and the maximum employment are intention. And yet we have this one instrument to try to achieve these two different outcomes. &gt;&gt; Well, right. And that, you know, leads to a a good point that, you know, were in some of my notes regarding the dual mandate that you have and the tricky balance that you do have to, you know, walk the tight rope between those two goals um quite often. So the agreement, it seemed to me, you know, again, total outsider here among the majority of FOMC voting members back in December to cut rates a third time seemed to be largely more driven by their concerns over employment than necessary and necessarily inflation. Um how do you see this balance sort of playing out with these two goals in 2026? Do you think that um employment will continue to maybe weigh a little heavier on the scale than inflation or um or will inflation start to, you know, weigh a little more heavily? &gt;&gt; You know, it's going to depend. I I I don't mean to I'm not dodging the question. It's just really going to depend on the data and how the data comes out. So, we saw a tick down in the unemployment rate most recently, and that's encouraging. I'd rather see a tick down than a tick up. If the unemployment rate moves sideways, uh that's one factor. If inflation moves sideways, that's another factor. Uh if inflation starts to trend down because the tariff inflation starts fading, uh that would be really good news. And then we could say, great, we have more confidence that inflation is going to get back down to our target in a reasonable period of time. We can pay more attention to the labor market. um you know back in 2019 we or 2018 we got down to a three and a half% unemployment rate with no inflation to speak of you know one and a half% inflation so and I was a strong advocate for focusing on the labor market let's make it as strong as we can if we're not seeing inflationary pressures and so we are really going to have to watch both sides of our dual mandate are they heading in the right direction and in what rate if one of them starts heading in the wrong direction you know that uh could be a big impulse that we to pay a lot of attention to. &gt;&gt; Right. Right. Yeah. It's not just shaking a magic aball and coming up with a decision. Right. It's a lot of data. &gt;&gt; It's imperfect. It's We're all flaw. We're all imperfect. We're doing our best with a complicated mixed set of data. Uh but we need to make the best call we can based on that data and the analysis of where the economy seems to be headed. &gt;&gt; Right. Right. Um what do you think? I mean, you touched on this a little bit about wages and, you know, seeing wage growth there, but, you know, do you expect demographic shifts and labor force participation rates to really start to impact job market and wage growth in 2026? &gt;&gt; Well, one thing we haven't talked about that is directly relevant to your question is immigration. There's been a dramatic reversal in the immigration trends from 2024 to 2025. And one thing I hear about from business leaders all across our region, elected leaders, Republican and Democrat, all across our region, is that we need more legal workers to feed our economy. I hear that. I've heard that for 10 years that I've been here consistently. And that is continues to be true. And yet now if we have zero net immigration that could on the margin make some of those pressures more acute than businesses were that businesses were already feeling. So one of the things that's complicated this read of the economy is we used to think that the US economy needed to create about 100,000 jobs a month to keep up with population growth. That's domestic, you know, homegrown population growth as well as immigration. Now that immigration has basically gone to zero, you know, more or less, what is that break even rate? Is it 50,000? Is it 30,000? We're not exactly sure what that break even rate is. And so, you know, what happens to the unemployment rate? What happens to wage growth? What happens to labor force participation? All of those trends that we would, you know, we would pay attention to the trends to see where they're headed. Those trends have now been scrambled. And so when we see the data, the data is important, but in a sense, we need to establish new baselines, new trends for the new environment that we're in to figure out what are they telling us about the economy. You know, back in before COVID, we kept thinking, oh my gosh, we're out of workers. And yet the labor force participation rate kept creeping up as more and more Americans said, "No, I want to work. I want to work." Which is wonderful. Great for them, great for our economy. &gt;&gt; What does that look like in this new moment that we're in? you know, I don't know yet, but all of these things are going to matter. And this is why, you know, conversations that we have across the district are so important. As I hear from farmers, as I hear from manufacturers, you know, are you able to find the workers that you need? Where are the pockets of workers of of skill shortages or worker shortages that you're finding most acute? That helps us get rid of. Is the economy overheating or is it slowing down? &gt;&gt; Exactly. And so let's take some of our conversation and maybe narrow the geographic focus a little bit to the upper Midwest. You heard the states that are on this call. They're largely, you know, either your footprint of the ninth district or um adjacent to it. Um a lot of our states, certainly including Wisconsin, are um very reliant on a strong egg economy. And so we certainly have a a large agriculture economy here. But um tell me a little bit, you know, some sectors of the egg um economy when you use that term in its broadest sense are certainly doing very well. Um there are other sectors that are also very challenged. Um so what are some of your concerns? Some of that might be driven by immigration as well and not may be able to find workers. Um technology is certainly helping with efficiencies um on farms specifically um and in in other aspects of the egg economy, but those are also big expenses typically as well. So, you know, what are some of your concerns for the egg economy across the upper Midwest uh in 2026? And do you see any factors that could maybe mitigate um a decline in net farm income for for farmers specifically? Yeah. So you touched on several of them already in your question. So immigration is wide is a widespread challenge that I hear from farmers and people who represent farmers across sectors of the you know a is a huge just saying the word a is a huge is a huge term that incorporates a lot but reliance on immigrant workers for part of their production is pretty universal across the different sectors of the a economy. So that's something I hear about a lot. Then of course tariffs and trade and you know the recent deal that was negotiated with the United States and China for China to start buying our soybeans you know we have a lot of soybean producers in our region that we're feeling a lot of pressure a lot of the concerns they share with me are hey once once you lose a customer and they go someplace else you know yes it's a global market but you see Argentina or Brazil expanding their production and then that has long-term implications for the global soybean market and so it's not simply shifting who's buying from whom. If new production is coming online, that could have longerterm consequences that is hard to recover from. So I hear from that, but I also hear optimism that now there's been a negotiation with China and China expects to start buying American soybeans again. And so it is quite sector specific about you know what are the actual factors affecting and it by the way this is not just tariff related. We've also seen a lot of production all around the world in many of these crops for many years in a row. And so part of it is just the cyclical nature of some of these a markets that there's been a cyclical low in terms of prices while input costs were high because of inflation. And so um some of it is normal challenges. Normal doesn't make it easy, but normal challenges that farmers are used to facing. Some of it is unique because of the high inflation that we've seen. Some of it is unique because of the immigration challenges that we've seen and then some of it is unique because of the tariff and trade negotiations that have been taking place. And so um none of it has been easy and where there are bright spots you know if you don't wish you don't want ill will for anybody else but when there are weather events in competitive producers around the world you know that can be that can be beneficial to American farmers who are producing here who may not have those weather events and that's the nature of a global commodity oriented market uh that they're competing in. &gt;&gt; Yeah, very true. Mother nature can be a help or a harm uh depending on where you where you are for sure for farmers. Yeah. Um and again encourage people we have 15 minutes left with President Qashqari. Encourage you to put questions in the chat. We do have another question in the chat um related to uh the time during which the government was shut down. So uh getting data was challenging obviously. Um, and so since the government data calculations have been redone recently, do you feel more confident in the data and feel it was a good idea to update to more modern times or do you have your own data that you choose to work from? &gt;&gt; Well, we rely on we look at a lot of data. We look at private sector data. We look the government data is the most important pieces of the data, but it's not the only data that we look at. So when the government was shut down and the data that we rely on was not available, we leaned on some of the private data that we have access to and we also lean on businesses and labor groups etc in our districts. You know me in the ninth district but my colleagues all across the country and saying what are you seeing in the data we also look at state data for example unemployment data generally comes from the states to try to piece together a picture of where the economy is headed. Now the I'm we're all very happy that the data has started being produced again. It's not yet completely clean. Like the data that we get still has some legacy effects of the shutdown where certain data uh was missing and the government has has to make some guesses of what that data is or they put in zeros for some inflation data for some categories. It's going to take a few more months until the data is fully clean again. And we need that data. We rely on it. But it's not the only thing we look at. We look at the totality of data that we can get. And we are always trying to improve the data sources that we have access to, improve our analysis of those data sources to get a better read of the economy. I mean, I'm I feel pretty confident that the labor market is mostly moving sideways right now. I feel pretty confident that inflation is slowly trending down, but it's still too high. But beneath the surfaces of that, there's a lot of complexity where different pieces of data are telling us different stories, &gt;&gt; right? Yeah, and I think you all of the Fed um districts do a really nice job of outreach to business and other um businesses, banks, and others to get that feedback, which is been really great to see. I noticed throughout my career that's certainly increased in your outreach to get that feedback. So, um I'm sure that helps as you struggle with these decisions that you make. Um, so I was going to move into AI uh question that I have and we actually also have a related AI question. So I'll start with the the banker question. Have you started to see any impact to unemployment due to or to employment due to AI? Do you see a risk of higher wage, white collar job losses that could start to create structural issues in the employment market? How are you watching this dynamic? You know, I talk about this and when I talk especially to big businesses, I ask a lot, are you using AI? And I say, give me specific examples of how you're using it. Almost every big business I talk to says that they are using it and they are finding real use cases. It's still for most in the experimentation mode. Let's try it in this part of our business. And they find out how to use it. But even businesses that were quite skeptical a couple years ago have now said, "No, no, no. We found real use cases and it's improving our productivity." I do not believe it's yet leading to any widespread layoffs. I do think businesses are being more cautious about hiring because they think, hey, we might find some productivity gain. So, let's not go hire a bunch of people who we might not need. Let's keep our workforce more or less as it is as we try to put AI to use. So, I think that that is happening. I think it is showing up in the hiring data, not so much in the any kind of layoffs. We're not seeing widespread layoffs thankfully across the economy. I think this is so far mostly a big company phenomenon that the big companies have the technical expertise and the and the capital to invest in these things and I think as big companies prove things out it will then translate down into middle midsize and smaller companies. Uh, I'll give you just an example of one company in our region. Um, a bank. I asked the bank CEO, "How are you using AI?" And the bank CEO said, "Oh, we're we're having AI listen to our customer calls." And the AI is listening to the calls. It's been trained on our customer calls. And it can anticipate what is the real question the customer is asking. And then it surfaces the prompts for the operator, helping the operator get to the right answer more quickly. So, it's not replacing the operator. It's making the operator more efficient and it's probably giving the bank customer a better customer experience because they get to the the help that they're looking for more quickly. That's an this was a big bank that told me this. That's an example of I could see big banks pioneering this and then I could see that rolling out across the banking industry as an example. That's just one little narrow example. There are thousands of examples out there. And so, I'm bullish on AI. I think it will be useful for the economy. Um, I'm not a a doom and gloom guy where I think it's going to lead to widespread job losses, but I do think it's going to change the nature of some jobs and it may affect hiring in some sectors uh more quickly than others. &gt;&gt; Sure. Right. Um, do you think so you don't think it's a bubble necessarily then? &gt;&gt; Well, bubble, you know, could valuations be in excess of fundamentals? Certainly, it's possible. I don't have a view on that but is it you know compare I always love to compare AI to crypto. AI has been around for a few years and every day businesses and consumers are finding uses for it that make them have them give them capabilities they otherwise didn't have. Crypto's been around for more than a decade and it's still basically useless for consumers. I mean, there's there's nothing you can do with Bitcoin or a stable coin that you can't already do with Venmo or with your traditional banking products other than circumventing banking regulation. And so, if I if I contrast those two things, AI is not a bubble and crypto is just a tool of speculation. &gt;&gt; Right. Well, and speaking of AI, and you mentioned it earlier in the beginning when you talked briefly about that, you know, people think of AI, it it has it also is a very broad term that could be used to describe many things, but a lot of people, especially in the upper Midwest, um uh think of it um in the context of data centers, which you mentioned earlier. Certainly Wisconsin, many of the states represented on this call are becoming a hot spot for investment for the building of data centers. Uh today's temperature here is in the teens. So, you know, that's largely uh uh one reason anyway. Um certainly I've heard both sides of the story um in terms of favorable uh economic benefits to having data centers um as well as the opposite side. Some consumers are naturally, especially those who live near where one is being built, are very concerned about energy costs and water uh availability um and and even to a degree employment. It might be high while the building is happening a lot of construction and labor workers um certainly employed, but um do those go away over time and what's really left in the data center for uh more routine employment? So you know what are some of your thoughts around that whole conversation of data centers? &gt;&gt; No for sure I mean AI and the data center buildout is one of the big drivers of economic growth today. So a lot of investment going in uh going there which is good on the aggregate for the economy assuming that it ends up being these end up being productive investments. This is net positive for the US economy. But anytime you see a big increase in demand for something, for steel or concrete or chips or electricity, all else being equal, you would expect to see prices of those sectors of those goods go up across the economy. So I think that concerns that people are raising are legitimate concerns to ask and understand. Just last week here at the Minneapolis Fed, I hosted the CEO of Excel Energy for an online forum and we talked a lot about data centers and about what is what are data centers going to do for electricity prices and he made a very compelling argument to me that it really depends on the regulatory environment of your power sector. like some states he said are really deregulated where if there's a new increase in demand all customers in that in that regulatory environment are will feel higher prices. He made the argument that here in Minnesota at least and in many of the regions that Excel operates that it's more of a regulatory a regulated environment where those costs end up being borne by the data center operators not so much distributed to their broad customer base. And so I I'm not an expert in electricity regulation and the pricing of it, but those are the I mean I found his arguments interesting and worth studying. Those are the type of details that I think are going to matter a lot about, you know, what our data centers going to do to local power and electricity prices. Um hopefully yeah let's just macro level if AI is anywhere delivers anywhere near the productivity improvement that the promoters say it will that's resoundingly good for the US economy. I mean productivity improvements are what drive uh standard of living improvements for societies and economic competitiveness. So we should want this AI to work. We should want it to lead to a boost for US economic competitiveness, but obviously how it all gets built out, the details do matter for communities. &gt;&gt; Yeah, for sure. And we're starting to see some legislation here in Wisconsin around that as well. And uh trying to control pricing impacts to consumers for the data centers being built here. Um, another question came in, shifting topic entirely here to non-housing consumer debt. You know, you did talk earlier about a K-shaped economy, and I do personally think that that is a very real um thing that is going on right now. And so, this um individual noted that with credit card balances for consumers, again, non-housing debt being so high, uh many times uh with accompanying high interest rates, uh based on the riskiness of the um an underwriting of the of the borrower, how long can consumers support this level of debt? Well, I think it's going to be very family specific. I think overall macro level, US households have pretty good balance sheets. You know, there's a lot of home equity, but again, that's more in the middle class and more wellto-d do than amongst than it is among lower income families who may not own their own home, as an example. Um, overall, we're watching I mean, there there have been increases certainly in delinquencies for low credit score borrowers, whether it's mortgage related delinquencies or credit card or auto loan delinquencies. So we are paying a lot of attention to it. I am paying a lot of attention to it. I haven't seen anything overly alarming yet saying that the that the sectors are breaking but there is real sign of economic pressure. And again I go back to why are these families feeling this pressure? I don't think it's because of job losses. I actually think it's more because of inflation. And so what is the right response for the Fed? If we said, well, we're going to cut rates just to try to support these families who are feeling this economic pressure. But if that makes the inflation problem worse, are we really helping them? And that's why it's a tricky moment uh for the central bank to think about what tools we have to address those issues. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I I would agree with you there. I think I do think there are in inflation is being felt higher prices by a certain segment of our consumers for sure. Um so we only have a couple minutes left and I have a couple different questions I'd like to try to get to here but um very quickly first uh question that came in. Could you talk about the increase in borrowers seeking non-traditional lenders as things get tighter? Of course we don't encourage that as bankers but um they are out there. &gt;&gt; Yeah, they are out there. I mean individual certainly um some of the the fintech related uh activities that we see then at the mac at the larger company level uh things like private credit etc. Uh I mean I think that these are things to pay close attention to. Um many many tech companies are offering products that look a lot like banking products to me and so if it's a banking product it should be regulated like a banking product and if we don't need the regulations then we don't need the regulations for the banking for the banks that are offering those products too. So to me, I think from a financial stability perspective, it's important to watch these and make sure that like products are facing like regulation and it's not simply somebody arbitrageing the regulatory environment. Uh so I mean I I take the point that's being raised and I think it's absolutely worth watching both from a consumer protection angle but also from a banking and financial stability angle. &gt;&gt; Right. Um and I will also comment um we do now have the link to your virtual meeting with Excel Energy Exec and so we'll share that out with the audience here um afterward uh so if they are interested in watching it they can see that conversation again separately back on data centers. Um last question and point for the day um also coincides with what I had prescripted as my last question for you um but a banker is also asking a related question. The Fed Chair Jerome Powell's term certainly does end in May. Um likely anticipate that will mean you know the dynamic of the Fed and the FOMC changing with a new Fed chair. Um the the banker's question that came in says do you expect to see any shifts in the market's responses to the Fed being able to continue and and operate independently? Um that's certainly a topic uh in political circles right now. Um but I don't know if you want to tie my two questions together or or answer them separately. &gt;&gt; Well um I think we all believe very strongly that the US economy is best served by having an independent Federal Reserve making monetary policy decisions based on data and analysis and nothing else. And we're not perfect at it. You know the I I've stressed today that the signals that we're getting are mixed and they're complicated and we're make doing our best to make the best judgments we can but keeping politics out of it and we're all committed to that. Ultimately we'll have a new chair of the Fed or the board of governors and of the FOMC and that person whoever he or she is will have to make their best arguments to the rest of the committee on what monetary policy is appropriate to achieve the dual mandate that we are all charged by Congress to try to achieve. that person gets one vote and you know the best argument wins. And so I feel very I feel confident that the committee will be continue to make the best decisions we can based on data and analysis to achieve the dual mandate that Congress has charged us to try to achieve &gt;&gt; well and good luck luck with that this year as you are back on the FOMC again this year. Um and again thank you so much for your time today. We're truly honored to have you here and grateful for your leadership of the ninth uh district and your representation of the upper Midwest, the greatest part of the country um on the FOMC as well with your counterparts. So, uh thank you so much for your time today. Uh really appreciate it, Neil. &gt;&gt; Thank you for having me, Rose. Appreciate it.