SOURCE: https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/monetary20260916a1.htm

Implementation Note issued September 16, 2026

Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation

The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance announced by the Federal Open Market Committee in its
statement
on September 16, 2026:

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously

to raise the interest rate paid on reserve balances to 3.90 percent, effective September 17, 2026.

As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

"Effective September 17, 2026, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to:

Undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds rate in a target range of 3-3/4 to 4 percent.

Conduct standing overnight repurchase agreement operations at a rate of 4.0 percent.

Conduct standing overnight reverse repurchase agreement operations at an offering rate of 3.75 percent and with a per-counterparty limit of $160 billion per day.

When appropriate, increase the System Open Market Account holdings of securities through purchases of Treasury bills and, if needed, other Treasury securities with remaining maturities of 3 years or less to maintain an ample level of reserves.

Roll over at auction all principal payments from the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities. Reinvest all principal payments from the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency securities into Treasury bills."

In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously

to approve a 1/4 percentage point increase in the primary credit rate to 4.0 percent, effective September 17, 2026. In taking this action, the Board approved requests to establish that rate submitted by the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas.

This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Open Market Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve's operational tools and approach used to implement monetary policy.

More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's
website
.
