Welcome. Um I'm James Mintosh and uh from the Wall Street Journal. We've got a great panel ahead. Um I'm not going to introduce everyone. You know who everyone is, but the title here, in case you're not familiar, Mania's Panics and Crashes was a fabulous book uh by Charles Kindleberger, all about the disasters of the past. Um frankly, a must-read financial history. And he explores how every bubble ended in disaster. Now, here of course we've got the discussion, you've probably been having it in virtually every panel you've been in about whether or not there's a bubble in AI. I think it's safe to say the consensus at this event is that there isn't a bubble in AI, but there's a lot of people who think there is. Um, it's worth going back to Kindleberger's definition. Uh, he defined bubbles as ones that popped, which is a bit self-fulfilling. Uh, we can't really say that with AI. It certainly hasn't popped, but there's definitely something in the air at the moment. There's a sense of the madness of crowds. And if you don't think that, please, please try and explain why sneaker maker Allirds shares went up sevenfold when it decided to pivot to AI. But not everyone, as I say, believes there's a bubble. So, I think we'll start go over to Kathy Wood. Uh my first question to you, why isn't there a bubble? Um you know all about bubbles of course you became the pinup for the 2021 bubble. Um I think for a lot of people so tell me tell us why is all this perfectly reasonable? &gt;&gt; Uh so uh I'll start by saying I was around for the tech and telecom bubble. I was a a fairly uh recent portfolio manager and uh and also had a background in economics. In uh 1999, there was not a care in the world. Uh investors and speculators were throwing capital at anything.com or internet. Uh and um the uh the Fed was easing. It eased three times and for three reasons. We had the Russian default, long-term capital and Y2K and then finally the tech and telecom bubble. So the Fed was easing accommodating all of this and it ended badly. But it ended badly because the technologies were not ready and the costs were way too high. uh and uh and so what we what we've seen is the seeds that were planted during that time actually the 20 years that ended in uh uh the tech and telecom bubble they have been germinating and uh at the same time because of the tech and telecom bust and 089 risk aversion has evolved in the marketplace and yes you mentioned 20 and 21 for ARC uh that was again we had massive fiscal and monetary stimulus and we ended up with a in response to a supply shock uh and monetary and fiscal stimulus you know huge inflation and it really did gum up the works when it comes to unit growth. So let me just I I I'll finish quickly here but in our work um the technologies that we see evolving and with our five major innovation platforms 15 different technologies they are converging uh our work is all about understanding the learning curves cost declines cost coming down. When costs come down in a new technology demand picks up a supply shock will interrupt that. Our mistake in 21 was not understanding that the supply shock would last for three years and really harm unit growth. So unit growth is key. Um we have no we have very few of those issues right now. Of course the Iran war is presenting some questions. Hopefully that's over quickly. But the seeds planted back then germinated for 20 25 years are ready now. They're flourishing now. the costs are low enough and the technologies are ready. And so we think we're in a a a technology revolution. AI is the biggest catalyst, but we've got robotics, energy storage, blockchain technology, and multiomic sequencing. The five major platforms including AI, they are converging. And it from I'll just the punchline here for us is this is going to be enough to move the economic needle. We think that real GDP growth is going to accelerate into the six seven 8% range sustainably because of productivity growth and also because of productivity growth we expect inflation to break down. If you watch true inflation it is already breaking down. Okay. So, Sebastian, you've literally just written the book on one of the key guys behind AI. Is this technology ready for deployment? &gt;&gt; Look, I think it's an A+ technology and a C minus business model. Uh particularly if you're looking at the foundation model builders. Um you know, since 2022 when chatbt came out, there has been this series of incredible advances. Much longer memory in these models, much less hallucination. the ability to do multimodal text, video, pictures, audio and so forth. Then reasoning models. Now this we're talking about agentic models. We've got, you know, world models coming down the pike in the next couple of years. So this is a fantastic technology. But if you look at the business model of say open AI, you know, they've got, you know, 900 something million users. About five% of those pay any money. and they finally realized belatedly they got to pivot into a whole different strategy where they cut the video production. They move into enterprise um they kind of subsidize companies through private equity firms to to buy their product. So I think you know there isn't an overall problem with the technology but I think there is um specific pockets of activity where this is not just an experiment with the technology this is experiment in capital markets like how deep are global capital markets. Can you raise hundreds of billions of dollars to tide you over from the moment now where you have the, you know, C minus business model to the moment in the future where you'll eventually have a better business model. And, you know, the leaked internal documents from OpenAI back in January were saying that their expected burn between now and 2030 was $660 billion. That's an insane amount of money, right? So, um, that's what I feel about the bubble question. I mean semiconductors, there's demand all day long, huge shortages, everybody wants more. They're very highly valued, but I think it's kind of justified. But in some of these other things where you have kind of a commodity product, a generative AI product where there are, you know, five labs in the west and maybe another four or five in China which you could use, it's hard to see the pricing power uh for now. I just make one um objection to Kathy's otherwise persuasive presentation, which is cost coming down. Cost coming down. I mean capex and AI is off the charts. So I'm not sure about that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'll just if I can just clarify that. So uh the learning curves. Uh so there's our model is focused on Wright's law. Writes law is a a relative of Moore's law. Um Wright's law is not a function of time like Moore's law is. Wright's law is a function of units. We're back to that again. Um if you look at technologies, if you look at hardware and software combined in AI, um the cost declines uh per uh cumulative doubling in it's a metric of data per unit of computing power. Those costs are dropping 54% for every cumulative doubling in that metric. You've got AI training costs down 75%. Inference cost down up to 95%. In the DNA sequencing space, that space is exploding. The convergence between sequencing technologies and AI is provocative. For every cumulative doubling in the number of whole human genomes sequenced, costs decline by 40%. Uh so and and in the industrial robotic space for every c and we're at a very low base here now for every cumulative doubling in the number of industrial robots produced cost decline by uh by 50%. So we've got some massive deflationary undercurrents uh undertoes some might say if you're going to be stuck in the old world. Uh and so that's what I mean by deflationary. &gt;&gt; Okay. So Austin, um 6% GDP growth and AI is leading to deflation. &gt;&gt; I'll take it. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So tell us tell us how when when are you cutting rates? &gt;&gt; It's a fiveyear accelerating. &gt;&gt; Look, that's what I want. If we get that that'd be the best that maybe the Fed will take credit, but but I I wonder that the Kindleberger book about mania, panics, and crash was really about bubbles. Is there such a thing as a mania that's not a bubble? I think there is actually. And maybe that's what we're talking about. That people could get really into a thing and it be justified that it'd be just as good as what they thought. The ma the mania is they're counting the chickens before they've hatched. Now, that may be the right count. The eggs may hatch. In my world within the Fed, there's a question, what would this do? Let's say it's true. What would it do to the economy? But then the grubbier, well, what would it do to the Fed? What what should the interest rate response be now? And the thing that I would we we brought up the 1990s and I just like to bring that example back to the four at the time we had a productivity boom in the right here. Alan Greenspan deduced that there must be an increase in productivity even though it was not yet in the data. Okay, he said if you look at corporate profits, they're up but the unemployment rate isn't rising and inflation is low. There must be the only way to square this there must be productivity growth. And that is when they were loose. That is when they did not raise rates. But by 1999, the data showed there was a huge increase in productivity. And now Greenspan changed his view and he said, "We got to be nervous. We got to start worrying about the fact that everybody's counting the chickens that are coming and now it's expected." And actually the Fed raised seven times in less than a year from 99 to 2000. And there are some people who say that's what engineered the the popping of the bubble. Take that battle from now ancient history to the young people today as they say you were alive in the 1900s. You know it's the question of if the productivity growth miracle is happening in an unexpected way then it will mean lower inflation and I think it means rates could go down because you have less pressure but if it's expected and the more people tell us hey what is coming down the pipe is six% % GDP growth and we're going to have massive productivity. Just remember, future increases in your income are a wealth effect today. And if what you see is people pulling forward from what they believe is going to be coming, massive investment today in data centers premised on stock market valuations that are super high, massive consumer spending based on stock market wealth off of AI. You before the productivity has arrived, you can easily overheat the economy in the here and now. And it's not at all obvious that the Fed would need to lower rates in that case. They might need to to raise the rates in in that case. So if it's as good as as it advertised, it would be lovely, wonderful, will make us rich. But if that's still to come in the future, I do think we need to be a little more circumspect and on the lookout for for over &gt;&gt; Can I just add something to this? &gt;&gt; Hang on just before before you come in, Benedict, &gt;&gt; you actually spend a lot of time studying the technology. Is it as good as this? Does it live up to the hype? Um, I remember a professor of mine once said, "History teaches us nothing except that something will happen." Um, and I think it's really obviously useful to think about the late '9s. Um, the the challenge there is whether we're in 97 or 99 where of course we can't tell. Um, but one of going in kind of into the micro of that, one of the characteristics then was that nothing really worked. It was all really really exciting but none of it worked. And it's also I think you know looking at you know a lot of the challenges with these models today it's also interesting to go back and think about you know the early 90s or the 80s and PCs when you know it was an entirely normal experience um to look up at your screen after looking away for a second and discovered that your PC had just locked and that was the last hour of your work was just gone and you'd have to go and pull the plug out of the wall and that was it. Um and there was a huge amount of work to be done. um to get to the point that like the young people of today do not know what a crash is except in the context of financial markets but they've never had a PC graph in them. Um these models look a lot like that now in that they're amazing and then they're not and they work really well and then they don't. And if one thinks about the market structure of the internet in the late '9s, um, none of those companies worked. And the ones that did don't look like anything like that anymore. Now, I mean, most people have probably seen the meme of Jeff Bezos from the '9s looking like a librarian and saying, "I sell books." And then Jeff Bezos today not looking like a librarian and saying, "I sell whatever I want." Um, generally an explosive included in that. Um, and so, you know, this was a world when the ISPs were going to be a big deal and there were going to be portals and it wasn't clear it was even going to be the web and it was going to be maybe Yahoo and you know, Larry and Sergio were at university and Mark Zuckerberg was in kindergarten. Um, and so all of the companies that actually got the value from this came later. The same thing with mobile a decade later. Um, there was Blackberry and Nokia and Palm and all of those companies and that wasn't ended. that didn't ended up end up being the way that it worked. And you know, so looping back to so looping back to what Sebastian was saying saying about capital. Um it's very unclear why building a very expensive foundation model isn't going going to end up being a piece of commodity infrastructure. Um I started my career as a as a telecoms analyst in 99 and 2000 when 3G was going to change the world and it did. But the Telos didn't get any value from that. And it's not just that it took 10 years. is that even after 10 years they never got any value from it. And what actually happened was that the industry spent 10 15 to 20% of revenue for the last 25 years. Um they build an enormous amount of infrastructure. The data consumption has gone up by many thousands of times. Um and the stocks have gone nowhere for 25 years basically. Some of them have roughly got back to where they were in 2000. Most of them haven't because it did take longer. But the important point was once it had happened, it wasn't them. It wasn't Yahoo on the one hand. On the other side, yes, it was you telos still was still there, but all the value was built other upstack. And so as I look at people building foundation models today, they'll spend say 700 $800 billion this year, maybe more next year. Um, we don't know the end state of this anymore. It's kind of trying to predict where that capex is going to end up is rather like trying to predict bandwidth in like the late 90s. Like you know what cells you put in the spreadsheet, but you don't know what the values are going to be. Um but it looks like there will be say three to six companies spending say quarter of a trillion to$2 trillion dollars that's a deliberately a wide range every year building this stuff and the they will have revenue to support that at no margin and there will be no price discipline and some of those companies will have other very highly profitable businesses that mean they don't need to make profit from those models and some of them won't and they won't get any value further up the stack. Um Sam Alman spent time talking about how this was going to be like Windows. But there's no network effect here. You don't have to write your applications for one model as the other because that's what people use. There's no network effect. There's no winner takes all effect. There's not clear why there would be any value capture. And actually the more interesting quote he said he from him was that he thinks we're going to be um people will be buying electricity but will be buying intelligence from us on a meter like electricity or water. Yeah. Do you want me to tell you about the margin structure of the electricity business or the mobile business? Um, so I can entirely imagine like yes, this will be the new piece because clearly this is the mini new PC. This is the new internet. This is the new mobile. But with the internet, it wasn't those companies and with mobile it was those companies, but they didn't get any of the value from it. And that's kind of what I think this looks like. Okay. So Zoe, back in 2006 2007, there was a vast amount of capital being deployed. You were there watching President Morgan Stanley and worrying about it. Um are you worrying about the vast amount of capital being deployed now? And do you think that companies will actually be able to raise these trillions they're talking about uh and deploy it? So yes, I was worried. Uh first of all, these chairs are not made for short people, you know. I mean for but so I'm hanging at the edge of my seat. I was worried. Um but I was very early to the point where my then boss used to say, John Mack, you're too negative. Good leaders are not that negative. So to answer the question of whether this is a bubble well in terms of valuations it is if you look at the past bubbles um in the 20s before the great crash B multiples were in the low tw 30s the low 30s it's in the high 30s now uh coming back to uh the irrational exuberance that Mr. Ginsman talked about in 96 uh 99 NASDAQ NASDAQ was up 90%. he talked in. So for me it's less important whether this is a valuation bubble and much more important the timing thereof on a scale of 1 to 10 are we in versus 08 the world fell apart going back to your original question when I was running Morgan Stanley so I had a front seat at billions of dollars being put to work um people forget actually that uh again in May of 07 July of 07 Bear Sterns went under in May 07 equities were making new highs we in fixed income knew the world had a problem so for me it's all about timing and less about valuation for me this is a generalpurpose technology generalpurpose technologies transform the world, steam engine, railroad, the robber barons were born out of those kind of things. A lot of people made a lot of money. Um, you could say the internet was a, you know, general purp. But people again forget electricity. It took 20 to 40 years for many business models to be transformed. So for me, it's all about timing. I think right now I am worried about the valuations but I'm not going to repeat the same me mistake I repeated in 07. I got uh negative way too early. Um but I would say for me it is a very capital inensive transformation. Right now the hyperscalers are the ones that are spending they've spent hundreds of billions of dollars. It's not your 401k plans. erh they have hundreds of billions of dollars to spend. Um 60 to 70% of this transformation is being built in the US. So if you go to Texas, there are cranes everywhere. There is no recession about to occur in this country anytime soon. So again going back to the framework for me, um it is something that's changing people's lives as we speak. My company uses AI. We're an asset management company. Uh I have at my fingertips uh information that I needed 12 Mary Makers at Morgan Stanley to get uh faster cheaper than Mary Mer could ever uh tell me her views of the equity markets. So it's transforming. But I spent three decades on Wall Street, over three decades on Wall Street. That subject matter expertise I have. When I ask AI a question, I've downloaded all five of them for a couple of hundred bucks. You can have the top model. I mean, it's amazing. Uh, but it gives you unequivocally BS with absolute authority. So you need to actually understand uh to say no no no this is what I'm asking. If you have subject matter expertise that people cannot emulate that's a moat this is transformative technology will make a lot of companies very effective and very rich or richer. I &gt;&gt; I have to say BS with absolute authority. No one would ever associate that with financial analysts. So that's that's great. Um, well, &gt;&gt; Sebastian, &gt;&gt; so I have a a funny colleague at the Council on Foreign Relations who's really into experimenting with new models. And one day I had coffee with her maybe about four or five weeks ago and she said, "Oh, it's great. You know, the new Claude model, fantastic. It's agentic. It's great. You know, it's already like giving me the news feed specific to me every morning." And I'm like, "Yeah, fine." You know, I read the economist news summary. It's, you know, that's good enough for me. Uh, but I also have other agents and they're doing other things. They summarize my email. I'm like, well, I look at my email now and there's already a summary that's kind of generated by some AI in the email system, but whatever. So, but I've got this thing and I've got this thing. And then she said, I had another idea for a fantastic productivity hack which is going to turbocharge how effective I am. So, I said to Claude, you're you know, I want you to your agent, you need to do the following for me. and Claude responded, "Cat, are you sure you're not asking me to do yet another agentic task because you're trying to avoid your own work?" Um, and um, I think this what this gets to is that the tech, you know, can be on some level impressive. Like, who knew that you could have some piece of software that gave you a tailored news summary? Um, but it can be impressive and yet not useful. Um, I mean, is it something people will pay a lot of money for? uh and I think that's this gets to the question of the value capture. It's actually very difficult to go from you know something which is technically impressive to something which really makes your work more efficient in coding. We have that and that's why anthropic is doing so well because it's coding. We've got had the first kind of coding assistant that was truly great. Um and there are other specific applications which you know may be genuinely useful but then there's a lot of just noise and to go from where we are today to the point where it's super useful for productivity is going to take time. We don't know how much time and to Benedict's point we don't know which kind of company will capture it. You know, there was a SAS apocalypse um you know, a few weeks ago and the theory, as you know, was well, you know, these foundation companies are going to produce amazing AI and nobody will need normal boring old enterprise software. Well, I mean, maybe if you have enterprise software and it's already embedded at a bunch of corporations and the corporations trust that software provider, maybe the most efficient way for the corporation is to get access to the AI by asking the enterprise software company to embed Claude into it and be the intermediary that figures out, you know, how you deliver AI to that company. So maybe SAS or some SAS companies could be in great shape. We don't know. We don't know who's going to capture the value. And so I think it's pretty safe to say there will be specific companies whose value goes up and then they collapse. But then overall is there a bubble? I don't really think so because I do believe in the tech. &gt;&gt; Okay. Sorry Kathy, I interrupted you earlier. &gt;&gt; Sure. Sure. No, no, no, no problem. I think one of the things that's happening today is that everyone's talking about a bubble and is fearful there is a bubble. As a portfolio manager, I feel very comfortable in that environment. It was in the late 90s and you're right the Fed had started tightening but you know you know they were still scared of Y2K and so they were not aggressive. Um uh there was not a a care in the world at that time. I was really uncomfortable with that. I have to defend uh since we own open AAI anthropic and XAI as it was absorbed by SpaceX. Um so we're looking at the models of course we are uh and it started out many people say this is free only 5% but um what we're seeing internally and we're not a coding shop um claude uh code and claude co-work uh now codeex and codeex goal which is this week's release is far surpassing claude work and so um It's very interesting. Started out $20 a month. This is for use inside ARC. Um then to 200. Everyone's running out of tokens. Uh our chief futurist is up to is willing to pay $2,000 a month. Why? Because uh he doesn't want to train an assistant. He has an assistant and the assistant is training itself. Uh so it is no surprise that Anthropics ARR went from nine billion dollars in December to $30 billion. Think about that. ARR annual annuals annualized recurring revenue uh from N billion December to 30 billion in April. And there are rumors out there that the latest read is 44 billion. And Codeex is now developers are not loyal. You're right about that. There's no loyalty. They're going to go uh to where the best performance is. And now it's codeex, something called goal that can reason for 20 hours. Uh so for companies that harness this uh this technology and run with it, it's very valuable and uh they're going to from a competitive point of view pull away very quickly. And so I think there's a sense of urgency. seauite. Not only seauite though, it is also from the bottom up people saying, "Oh my gosh, am I gonna lose my job? I better learn what I better learn what this is all about so that I can I can compete." So that that's how I would answer that question. And you're right, we don't know if they're the ultimate winners. Um but I do find it interesting that unlike the late 90s where again companies like Amazon would say we are going to lose so much more money now and the market went straight up on that. In the public markets that's not happening it's happening a little bit more in the private markets the venture markets. So it is a very different environment and the changes are incredible. One last thing, we're not just talking about productivity here. We're talking about embodied AI like autonomous transportation, which is the biggest revenue generating opportunity during the next 5 to 10 years. Robo taxis, trucks, drones, and so forth. And we're talking about maybe the most profound application of AI which is health care embodied AI collapsing the cost and time to research and discover new drugs diagnosing diseases in their earliest stages or even before as the body is setting up and ultimately not ultimately this is already happening curing disease we are seeing cures for cickle cell disease and betathalmia uh many of the things happening in healthcare care today would not be happening if we didn't have sequencing technologies. We have 35 to 40 trillion cells in our bodies and uh and now we have single cell sequencing. That's a huge AI project. &gt;&gt; You know, Austin, you wanted to come in, but before you make your point, I just wanted to ask you, does the Fed have a chief futurist? &gt;&gt; I don't know. I am Am I the chief futurist? Uh no I I don't think we have the Fed will always be uh especially in the payment we run much of the payment system of the of the United States the financial plumbing there is a sense in which the Fed is always going to be a little bit the fuddy duddy of finance because moving fast and breaking things is not compatible with $6 trillion a day of payments. Oh whoops. Sorry, Fed wire didn't go today. You know, we we will have a financial crisis. So, there is a sense in which we want to be a little slower adopting and make sure that that it's safe. I'm interested in this. Let's call it the maximalist description of what AI can do. Is it based on the technology that exists already or is it based on an extrapolation of the improvement that we have seen in the last three years out into the future? And the reason why that matters as I think about it is part of that improvement has come from algorithms and let's call it the theory of AI improving. Part of it has come from massive capital investment in computing power, massive increases in the size of the data sets that it can be trained on. And the more of it that comes from that, the more there will be diminishing returns that kick in relatively soon. And so I'm a little uncomfortable. Let's just be careful figuring out take autonomous driving. 15 years ago, it was a widespread prediction that autonomous driving would be so ubiquitous that every professional driver in the United States would be out of a job within five years. And you'll remember and people are say, "Oh my god, that's the most common occupation in the United States. If it happens that quickly, we're all we're we're going to be in for a world of pain." It didn't happen that quickly because for what the improvements were, they were extrapolating that it would continue improving at that rate and it didn't. It hit diminishing returns. So I wonder when I see these massive data center expenses, how much of the improvement that we've seen so far is going to reach kind of the limits of growth. And that at least ought to be in the in our calculation of of what's the probability that it takes over healthcare, it takes over. &gt;&gt; Can can I just add &gt;&gt; my favorite example of this is is on your codeex that it has to be instructed not to talk about goblins all the time. Um and I just love the idea that the cutting edge AI models left to themselves would just talk about Dungeons and Dragons stuff. So sort of is a little bit maybe it's not quite there yet but &gt;&gt; can I yeah since I I realize I'm &gt;&gt; quickly because I want to go I actually think that um with AI in the transportation space it's going to be wost and that is how the market is sorting itself out. There were many many competitors as you say 10 15 years ago and innovation does happen slowly slowly and then all at once we are at the all at once stage and vertically integrated models like Teslas we believe will win over Whimo because they'll be much lower cost structures. I I think I think what you're saying if we weren't witnessing um what Tesla and Palunteer and uh Tempest in the AI healthcare front are doing. Uh I wouldn't be able to say winner will take all but that is I believe what's going to happen here. &gt;&gt; Okay. So &gt;&gt; so you can be in heated agreement that this is a great technology. It's going to change things. is going to be very effective on a number of things and I as I said to me some of the best technology we've spent a billion dollars a year at Morgan Stanley in 07 real money some of it was the effectivenesses of spending very little money in technology but have the best technology mind sitting next to the trader or the wealth manager the broker and map out what is the process they're going through and use technology make it better. This is happening. A lot of companies are doing the same thing. We can be in heated agreement. I don't think there is enough talk about risk management because right now the markets are making and again I'm an enthusiast uh of of this technology. The markets are making around the world a very big assumption that capital will continue to be available and cost thereof will continue to stay low. That's a very big assumption. Uh so when you look at uh in the past uh the way these things kind of became bubbles that burst is the fat tightened some of it to fight inflation. Uh you don't need to get into religious discussion with it too early or too soon. So for me right now even if the Fed keeps interest rates low the curve is already upward sloping and I think what I watch is if the curve starts saying in this environment sovereign governments not not just the US government the Germans are printing money for God's sake the Chinese are printing money the everyone is printing money so the debt to GDP around the world is going up these hypers scalers are going to come to the public markets to borrow more. So I think what we all should look at you're taking a risk in investing in this amazing technology. You don't make any money unless you take risk. Um but you need to get paid for the risk you're taking. So to me the right question to ask are we getting paid enough for the risks we're taking? And I would say in the private credit world, I don't want to create enemies. Debatable. Uh so that's how I would actually what I try to proitize people is there's no point to argue the unarguable. This is going to change and it is changing the world. But if you run out of money, and I remember again the ' 08 fiasco, what saved I took billions of of uh risk off the firm's balance sheet back then is I went to California and this guy said, "Zoe, uh this is remember the housing, is it a housing bubble? Is it not?" And he said, "Go back to New York and stress test your assumptions as a company." I can tell you uh he was a mortgage expert. Your recovery rates are going to be a lot lower than your models predict and your actually default rates are going to be a lot higher than your models predict. When did the world change? When we went from mark to model to mark to market. It didn't matter that it was an amazing uh evolution of digitizing, if you will, and privatizing housing. CDRO squared said that we didn't risk manage enough our balance sheets. So that's I think there is not enough being talked about. Benedict, &gt;&gt; yeah, I mean there's just an observation on on the two previous comments. There's a difference between a good technology and a good company and there's a difference between a good company and the right price. Um and indeed the right price right now. Um I mean the the the question of Tesla and autonomy is is partly religious and partly comedy. We've had autonomy next year for 15 years. We'll have it for another 15 years. Um you know we'll find out. But there's no predictive value. Um certainly in anything that Elon says, but really we we can't really predict when that's going to happen. And there's a there's a more general point here, which is I think the fundamental way that that the generative AI is different from every other platform shift or certainly every other bubble is that we don't have a good sense of how this works. That is to say, you know, we didn't know what the next iPhone was going to be. But we knew it wouldn't have a one-year battery life and a neural implant. We didn't know which internet companies were going to work, but we knew that Telos weren't going to give everybody in the world fiber broadband next week. And we knew how Moz worked, and we knew what how many PCs there were. Um, we don't really know why LM work so well. Um, we also don't know how human intelligence works either. So, um, we can't kind of draw a chart and say, well, CH GPT4 was here and 5.5 is here and chimpanzees are there and people are there and in 17 and a half months it will get to octopuses and we don't know how we can model all of that. So, you know, we might look at our phones this afternoon and see a notification that there's a Deep Seek paper which turns out to be misunderstood, which is what happened a year ago. Or we might get a paper that says someone's worked out how to get the same results for 1% of the cost which is great for everybody except investors in data centers. Um or it may be that over the next three years the whole thing kind of slows down the way autonomy did and the models that we have now are kind of what we get and we don't continue to get these step changes in capability. And the problem is we don't know. So everybody making statements about this whether it's Demis or Yanapun or um or or whoever is ultimately just kind of vibes forecasting they're saying what they feel the technology might do because we don't have a theoretical way to say what it will do and you know for better or worse that's just kind of a conceptual difference from the other um technology shifts that we had. Um that comes back to you know your your point about investment in data centers. The fundamental difference here of course from the investment in fiber is that the investment in fiber is ahead of demand and this is all massively behind demand right now. So right now the stuff is all sold out well in advance right now they can't meet demand. Um even if the technology doesn't improve at all you could probably fill twice as much data center with the models that we have today. Um presuming that but but then but then you have that question of how much does the um efficiency keep improving. So right now we've got an explosion in demand and an explosion in usage driven by agentic and more people which pushes the demand up. We have efficiency doubling uh inference efficiency doubling every couple of months which pushes the demand down. You can't get enough of kit to build more data centers. So everything kind of gets pushed out. There may be new approaches and then you're training the next model every six to nine months. So how long are you chasing the frontier? How long do the models keep getting better? At what point does the improvement in efficiency catch up with the increase in demand? Which is kind of what happened with Telkos as as I mentioned earlier that Telos dealt with you know exponential growth in demand for 30 years and they managed that um by keeping prices more or less steady and spending 15 or 20% of their revenue on capex every year. Um and the result was they kind of maintained equilibrium for 30 years. We don't have equilibrium in um in LLM. We don't have equilibrium for the price for the demand for the capex. We don't know where that equilibrium will be, but we also don't know how the change in the technology will affect that. So, it may be that we have stuff that's absolutely amazing and has great ROI and everyone really does spend 10, 20, 50, $100,000 per employee on this stuff, which is what kind of people in the valley are starting to talk about, like, you know, what's your expense per employee on on tokens. It may also be that the price collapses, the model stops getting better, the efficiency takes over, and this stuff just gets cheap and free and becomes a commodity and gets rolled into your $10 a month plan and doesn't get much better. Um, so we kind of don't know what those curves are going to look like. Can can I just since um I I I actually do think about the risks out of this here. I think what may happen to interrupt maybe the momentum and this is something we're watching is that now that everybody understands AI uh that the idea of who's really controlling this where are you a real human being? I think that that um the uh resurgence of the human being in the decision-making process is could possibly um not interrupt but slow things down as we get into proof of humanood and and if any of you know of orbs and and so forth um I think it's going to become very important because who controls the purse strings at the end of the day this is more on the consumer side of course um uh it is a consumer so um we are on the lookout for a change in momentum because you're absolutely right Benedict I think certainly when it comes to chips we saw AMD reporting last night but we learned something else guess what aentic AI means the ratio of CPUs to GPUs is going to increase from one today one to four today to one if Lisa Sue is right so it's We're back to the future, you know, we're seeing Intel, we're seeing names like uh well, Dell, of course, Flex, which used to be Flexronic, so Cisco, it's all hands on deck for for for this hardware buildout side of it, hardware and software. But there will be a moment where people will saying, "Wait a minute, uh, I need to figure this agentic thing out a little bit better in terms of the economics." Austin, can I just We've got an interesting couple of interesting well quite a lot, but a couple of reader uh sorry audience reader journalist. They're readers. Our audience wants to know could we end up here in a sort of new feudalism where there's a an elite that uses the AI and everyone else loses their jobs and and if so, what on earth should we we do about it? &gt;&gt; Directionally, yes. But let's let's not over emphasize what it is. That's the let's call it the K shape. Does it have income inequality implications? Can technological changes have inequality implication? For sure they can. If you look over the centuries, they can affect u depending how fast they come in. Uh they can affect different groups differentially. If the AI were as powerful as what we're describing in its most expansive form and a bunch of people said, "I don't want to touch it. I want to have nothing to do with it." That could show up in wages. But the idea that there will be 10 owners of the AI and everyone else will be destitute but for their universal basic income to me that seems a little overplayed. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Yeah. That's that's good to hear, I have to say. Um uh I mean there there's a lot of interest here, but one of the um one of the big questions when we're trying to for the for those of you who do believe there's a bubble or even for Kathy if we're if we're watching for turning momentum, what is it that you look for as the indicator? Are we in 97 or are we in late 99? You know, when when is it when do we know it's time to get out? I don't know who wants to take that, but maybe Zoe since you raised this. &gt;&gt; I Yeah, I would say again uh you want to have liquidity. So before you kind of act, you need to have enough liquidity. Uh so whatever investments right now that we're making in this space is you're being asked to lock up your money for 10 years and you have people managing that money decide who the winners and losers are going to be. So as a portfolio allocator I would say if I have enough liquidity I would look at and and can I get out and I would want to hit that bid. As I said earlier, the debt in terms of debt to GDP of sovereign nations has never, and I use the word never very very judiciously, has never been higher. Um, and so if that demand for capital keeps on going up, what they've done in the past is they print money. They even have active balance sheet management where you issue as a government on the one hand and you buy back the bonds with the other hand and you can keep artificially cost of capital low. To me the fact that uh fiveyear uh interest rates uh broke 30% I mean sorry 30-year interest rates broke 5%. I don't know where it is now. Maybe it's down below again. That's something I watch for. If I don't think the Fed is going to tighten uh dramatically, whether they tighten 25 basis point(s) or is 25 basis point(s), it doesn't matter. What I look at is what is the yield curve going to do? And if we have a Liz trust in the UK, that kind of moment where UK guilts, this is basically government paper of one of the top nations in the world. UK guilts basically got annihilated in the space of weeks. I look at that and if that happens here uh I would hit the bid. &gt;&gt; Okay. One thing maybe in a discussion about um bubbles uh and whether we have one right now that we should keep a hold on is that you know a large part of the activity in AI is going on in private companies and you know so you don't get to to the point about liquidity you know these are private investment rounds where nobody can short the asset you can't be a short seller in private markets and to the contrary in fact when you act in private markets you're you lots of people are desperate to get into the round. They want access. So, you can't even speak short. You can't like denounce the value very easily of some new um investment round in in OpenAI if you're part of the Silicon Valley ecosystem and you want to remain, you know, on good terms with all your buddies who may refer you to future deals that you do want to be part of. So you know I wrote a whole book about uh the history of Silicon Valley through the eyes of venture capitalists and this is one of the big features you always get bubbles in private tech assets partly because at the early stage there's no data to go on right there's no price earnings ratio because there's no earnings yet and so it's all a storydriven thing and that's you know susceptible to booms and busts but also because when you get into growth companies in the latest stage um there's just nobody can be short nobody can criticize it. You've all got to be part of the club and and so you you so what I would look for is that when you have these very high valuations, you know, take the most recent round for open AI um 850 billion or whatever the valuation is. Um and then you look in the secondaries because there's some market for that and the secondaries are telling you that the nominal paper valuation is above the secondary action and that's a sign. If you look in the public markets and you see that companies that have a lot of contracts with open AI are falling and open AI is being revalued up which you know was happening in the last three or four months to on a big scale you know that's a sign so I think one thing to just remember is that private markets have this characteristic the second thing is secular deals if we go back to 1990s and the bust in the early 2000s one of the things was that you had sort of certain kind of core players in the internet ecosystem that went down and then it turned out that a lot of other companies in the system were selling product to the core and so then everybody went down together and there are a lot of these circular deals now emerging um between the builders of the foundation models the suppliers of the compute clusters the suppliers of other services and I think also that's something to watch quite carefully And I'm a bit worried about that. &gt;&gt; Okay. And yeah, Kathy, what so what's the what's the point at which you would sell? And then also on these IPOs that are coming, are you a buyer? Uh it's notable SpaceX, for example. &gt;&gt; Yes, this year is going to be very interesting because of the SpaceX IPO. We know OpenAI and and Anthropic are are leading and it may be the midterm elections fear about uh you know a change in in the regime down the way. Um so I think the supply is going to be enormous. it is. I mean, index providers especially because the S&amp;P and others are going to let SpaceX in, you know, much sooner than they would otherwise, everyone's kind of geared up. Um, but in order to absorb the supply, what what are they going to do? The index providers will be selling the rest of these indices. So I think your point about um about the private versus the public market, we've seen over the last few years many companies go public and go straight down. So the public is becoming a little skeptical of I'm not saying of these in particular uh but of many private companies that are going public. When do we sell? I can tell you I sell all the time. We I do we take profits all the time and redeploy right now over the last certainly over the last four years uh the multiomic space you know the idea that healthcare and AI are converging in a provocative way um we've been buying into that that has just been dead as a doornail and I would say if we were in a real bubble uh that group you get AI attached to anything and it is happening ing in there now. It is this is not when it is happening now. And yet it is it has just been devastated as a group because the convergence between health care and technology is really hard for research departments that are siloed by sector or industry or subindustry. Uh tech analysts don't like healthcare, healthcare analysts don't like tech, you know, different chemistry. so highly inefficiently priced in a bubble that would not be true because many pe you know we're not dreaming about personalized health care right now it is happening now unlike in the late 90s &gt;&gt; and buyer or seller of SpaceX &gt;&gt; pardon &gt;&gt; buyer or seller of SpaceX at IPO at 100 times &gt;&gt; well we own it we own we we have a venture fund it's roughly 850 million it's our largest position uh we've been in for many rounds global uh global I mean orbital data centers we're doing the modeling work on that are going to dwarf Starlink and Starlink is and and SpaceX is 10 years ahead of anyone else in space technology &gt;&gt; so so you would buy more at IPO not sell what you've got &gt;&gt; the model we have out there and you can see it if you want uh it's on GitHub and on our website arc-invest.com uh in that model pre-orbital data centers we had a price target a a valuation target of $2.5 trillion in 2030. Now they're saying this may be a 1.75 to2. So if they if they had not um announced orbital data centers and if we were not modeling them, I mean this could increase the revenue base of SpaceX 20 to 30fold if you go into the out years. So that would be the biggest company in the world by a very large margin. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; I remember I remember when I was a baby analyst in the docom bubble and we were looking at companies that would say well we're going to be this but then we'll be that and then we'll be that and then we'll be that and that's what you should value us on. And we called them multi-stage rockets. &gt;&gt; And that's that's the sum of the parts of Tesla and SpaceX. It's not this. It's not the next thing or the next thing or the thing after. It's that other thing that doesn't exist yet that maybe it will happen. And but of course Elon Musk and I'm glad I'm glad there's that kind of skepticism. I think that's good. We're hearing, believe me, we have a brainstorm uh with outside visitors and we're we're hearing a lot of push back on this and I understand it, but we're doing the modeling. We're doing very serious research uh using rights law trying to figure out how big could this data center opportunity be. &gt;&gt; Okay. Well, on that note, we've drifted some way from uh from mania, panics, and crashes, but there's certainly a bit of a I would say a lot of disagreement here about valuing these things. Um, I would just want to say thank you very much to the panel and uh I hope everyone's enjoyed it. &gt;&gt; Thank you, James. &gt;&gt; We hope you enjoyed the discussion. The next panel will begin shortly.