So, we're ready to get started. Uh, good afternoon. My name is Gina Roman and I am the director of financial policy at the Chicago Fed. Um, so I have an unenviable task of cutting off lunch conversation, but I'm actually quite delighted to do so to introduce our fireside chat participants, uh, Gita Ginath and Austin Goulsby. You already know everything there is to know about Austin from this morning. So I'm going to introduce Gita who is the Gregory and Ana Kofi Professor of Economics at Harvard. Uh Gita is one of the world's leading scholars in international finance and macroeconomics. She started her academic career right here in Chicago at Booth before joining Harvard Econ in 2005. Ga made key contributions to the profession on topics ranging from trade and investment to dollar dominance, exchange rates, international financial crisis and monetary policy and debt. All of which laid a perfect foundation for the next step in her career. And so in 2019, Gita left Harvard for the IMF where she first served as the chief economist and then as the first deputy manager managing director, a role also known as the number two at the fund. Her timing was exquisite. Uh first came the co9 pandemic and the need to coordinate the global response to it. Then there was the development of a new playbook for member countries to respond to fluctuations in capital flows um known as the integrated policy framework. Then came the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the economic crisis in Argentina and the policy turmoil in global trade just to name a few. And so today we're very fortunate to welcome Gita to the fireside chat with Austin. We don't have a fireplace but we have all of the ingredients for a perfect conversation. So the floor is yours. &gt;&gt; Okay. That was thank thanks Jean and you took me I was going to start us let's take a trip back down memory lane and you showed up as a brand new assistant professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business and we go way back but you were a superstar even then that's that's why that's why we hired you tell us take us to 2019 you're on the faculty at Harvard you go to the IMF F chief economist. How do you find the transition from academia to policym and what happens that six plus years later you're you're you're still there. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Thank you Austin first of all to have me here. So yes I went to the fund in 2019 and I am so glad that 2019 was a pretty unremarkable year for the world. though I thought it was pretty remarkable because I was making these forecasts and moving around projections by a tenth of a decimal point and that was important but I I had that one year to get up to speed with the job and to understand what it involved but it's fair to say that like with all policy jobs I think they get really interesting when you are dealing with a crisis and so the first big one of course was the pandemic uh and I remember this was uh February 2020 we the you know the WHO had declared that this was a global pandemic. uh it was still early days because you know the virus originally was China moved to Italy then there were some people who got on a plane from Italy came to the US and brought it to the US and as chief economist uh you know one of the things I oversaw was the global economic outlook which was just to give a projection for the world economy in 2020 and 2021 uh and I had to lock that up by the end of March because the you know the the the report is out in April and the question was okay what are we gonna do was there something in the empirical evidence from the past that we have no we don't that was a 100 years ago we don't have any data for it who should we be talking to let's get on the phone with epidemiologists who we usually don't talk to but this was interesting a good conversation to have and then importantly you know we had to call up the different countries the country desks obviously at the IMF who uh who provide the groundup input to what the final estimate is going to be uh and tell everybody well we've been told by the epidemiologists that maybe the virus isn't there yet but it will get there so we're going to make a projection for the year we better take that in so we did all of that paper and pencil economics and we put out a number and I remember just you know clearly we said that the global economy would shrink by three percentage points It shrunk by three percentage points that year. Now, that sounds way better than it actually turned out because we did do a few updates around the way. We should have stuck to the three percentage points. But, um, yeah, I think that that would tell you so much about about what it means to move to the policy world because it's not just that it's policy, but you're doing things you've typically not done before, like speaking to epidemologists and so on. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Right. And so you go through a series of crises very much focused on content and then part partway along the way you move up to the to to almost a ministerial role and brought a much more publicfacing nature than than most economists do. Was that was that on purpose? Did that just happen? What did you What did you Wh why why do that? And did you feel that that it was effective? &gt;&gt; I think I was just doing my job. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So maybe we're in times when everything is a lot more public and the social media and so therefore there was a lot more attention to it. &gt;&gt; But being on the management uh of the of the IMF, being at the IMF, you are a diplomat. So that is when you have a passport. I had a Leia Pier that proved that I was a diplomat. And so you go around, you're meeting people, you're meeting uh officials in different parts of the world. So no, it was not a conscious decision of any kind. &gt;&gt; I see. &gt;&gt; I I think it u it was just that it's just a lot more visible. &gt;&gt; Okay, let's steer you back to straight up content. You've you've been writing uh about global imbalances. when you left the IMF uh one of the G7 initiatives to address the global imbalances you've thought a lot about. Tell us a bit about this effort. Yeah. So um France has the G7 presidency and the priority for the presidency is to address the issue of global imbalances to see whether we can have a solution to you know so countries can work together uh and we don't have tariffs and counter tariffs going forward. And so President Mccron put together this economist group of four of us to come up with some internal thinking on this on this topic. I think what's been very interesting working on this particular project is I mean we the economics is is well understood in terms of what the drivers are of global imbalances and so on. But what was really refreshing is to to think about what the role of the WTO uh was the re the reason these so-called rules-based institutions were created because right now we're at a moment where there's this questioning of what does it mean to move away from rules-based system and actually when you go back and you look at the origins of all of these institutions you realize that it was actually far more pragmatic than maybe where we are now. So when the WTO was created originally not the WTO going back to GAT which was the original discussions on uh trade and tariffs the logic was very simple. Firstly there was a recognition that every country will have an incentive to protect their industries. The goal of creating this gap and the rounds of negotiations was not to go towards free trade but it was to say well sure we understand you will want to put some kind of tariffs let's all be transparent about what instrument we use and the only transparent instrument is the tariff. So that was the point of the the discussion and secondly we're not telling you what you should do for your country. You can pick your policies. If you want to make mistakes, please go ahead and do that. But all that we want to be sure is that the consequences of those decisions are not costly for the rest of the world. So we will provide this negotiating forum very coian in approach for for countries to come together. You want to have 20% tariffs, you have 20% tariffs. But then you negotiate with countries because if you want market access to them, then obviously there's a give and take and you have negotiations over there. &gt;&gt; Was does that imply? Sorry. &gt;&gt; No, go on. Go. Go. &gt;&gt; Does that imply that the rise of the non-tariff barriers was not on their mind at that time or once everybody made agreements on tariffs then it opened the door. &gt;&gt; Right. So, so exactly. So, that was the big m question was what do you do with countries that have all kinds of non-tariff barriers. So, a very concrete example was what happens when Russia was going to be brought into into Gat. There was clearly the sense that okay I mean you are a non-market economy there is no way that we can find what the market equivalent of all your instruments are so we'll keep it simple we will tell you basically you can get into GAP but we will have quantity restrictions on how much you sell to the world so we will limit the quantity of things that you can export because it's just too complicated otherwise to figure it out. uh and so it that's a sense in which was actually very pragmatic about how we're going to deal with different countries around the world and in a sense maybe we are at a current moment where it's not a bad idea to pause and think about it because that's the other thing which is if you think of one of the reasons why GAT and in its further incarnations and then the WTO had a bit of this pragmatic approach was to recognize that if you want to sustain global trade you need the political will for it. And so even if we are in a perfectly first best world where everybody's trading purely on comparative advantage, we have to recognize that if a country is going to have its industry destroyed by trade with another country, that has political consequences and therefore we must have a safety valve. It's not stable. So anyway, &gt;&gt; do do you think that the imbalances that we see big ones around the world do do they contribute to financial stability risk or are they kind of on the real side on on their own? &gt;&gt; So I think there are two important episodes to keep in mind for global imbalances. One is before the Plaza cord in the 1980s and the other was the big global imbalance which is the mother of all global imbalances which was right before the great financial crisis. Right? The first one what was the problem? The first one was deficits, US deficits were getting bigger but it was about trade with Japan. there was rise in protectionism and then there was this pragmatic approach to saying we've got to address this and therefore we're going to do something about the currency which by the way was not what solved the problem. What solved the problem was what came afterwards but that's an important thing to keep in mind. And then there is the there is the more recent one which is the great financial crisis which uh to to your question of can imbalances generate financial instability. I would say that the run-up to the great financial crisis was two things. One was of course you had following the East Asian crisis you had all of the economies including now China building up reserves you know to for precautionary uh purposes and that created this huge demand for safe assets around the world but then that combined with financial deregulation in the US and creation of new kinds of financial instruments. So it's not enough to just have the rest of the world say we want to we have a large amount of saving we want to park somewhere but it has to go along with financial uh you know regulation or deregulation in that particular case which happened right before the GFC. So it's that combination that can create a crisis. &gt;&gt; Okay. How about the global you you wrote an op-ed earlier this year about some the global rules-based order and and highlighted the erosion of public trust in a global order that is rules-based is one of the potentially longlasting consequential changes of of the last however many years that's had. Does that erosion of trust lead to greater financial stability risks, propagation of crisis or or that kind of thing. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. And it the question is it's it's timing, right? How long does it take for that to play out? So firstly, I mean we should all recognize that geopolitical factors have become increasingly bigger drivers of capital flows, right? So if you whatever empirical estimation you you you look at in terms of running a gravity equation you will see that geopolitics matters. So there was this report that uh was there at the IMF. I think this was a couple of years ago that basically said that if the geopolitical distance between two countries grows to how big it's become between the US and China then we the amount of flows between the two countries portfolio flows and bank flows decline by 15%. Right? So just when you have geopolitics playing a bigger role that in and of itself is redirecting capital flows and that obviously has consequences for your cost of borrowing for interest rates and all of that. Second of course with geopolitics and lack of trust you have what we're seeing in terms of tariffs real consequences that obviously can generate credit risks if it gets bad enough. And so there are there's a real channel through which the financial sector is affected. And importantly and since we are here talking about financial stability risks and what regulation and supervision can do I think one thing that has come up is to recognize recognize how integrated this whole system is. Right? We're talking about non-bank financial institutions. They're not constrained to geographical boundaries. They have crossboundary exposure. And ideally we would have enough trust and enough communication to make sure that we are able to make know what the systemic risks are in the system but we don't and and so that loss of trust and then lastly um you know increasingly we hear about what might happen if there is a crisis in the past there was a lot more trust there was a lot more let's help each other out but right now I think countries including you know US allies are asking the question about will they have access to the Fed swap window. Will will will we have a lender of last resort when it comes to the dollar internationally? And I I'm not saying that any of this is where we're going to go and that but as you know in a financial system even questions of this kind are &gt;&gt; undermined &gt;&gt; and and can generate all kinds of confidence shocks. Let's turn and think about the dollar a little bit. You have done a lot of research about the dollar and as a policy maker have had to think through those. What the heck is going on with the dollar? Has it surprised you? A that it was strong for a long time. Now the declines it is it a what's happening and b is the dollar on path to lose its place as the world reserve currency? I'd say the biggest disconnect between what uh economists predicted for 2025 and what played out was the dollar. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; On the rest on inflation, on the impact on the economy, I think we were approximately right. Right. But on the dollar, it was fair to assume that if you come if there were going to be tariffs, if there was going to be expansionary fiscal policy in the US, then that would mean a stronger dollar. And also that was the season of US exceptionalism. Everybody was putting money in the US economy. The fact that it didn't and and the fact that it never recovered after like about 8 to nine% depreciation in 2025 is I would say the one that's been that's a little odd compared to everything else in the stock markets have recovered, bond markets have recovered, everything has recovered except the dollar. So in terms of what's going on, I think I think the one important explanatory factor is that there is a lot more dollar risk hedging that's happening. There's more hedging of dollar risk. Now there are reasons to do that, not just from a geopolitical perspective, but once you've had an expansion or an appreciation of the dollar for about 15 years, it tends to have you have a period when there's also a pretty long period of depreciation. Right? By the way, people forget that the right before the great financial crisis, the dollar was actually depreciating the whole time. And people forget that when people make this point that it's only when you have a strengthening currency that you have a global imm problem. That's not correct. So I think what we have right now is this feature of more dollar hedging because everybody thought it was a one-way bet before all you know Taiwanese pension funds, insurance companies and everybody more broadly had the sense that the dollar would not be would never would not depreciate. So we didn't really have to hedge against that risk. Now that is a real risk that's being considered and so there is more hedging uh associated with that. That would be I would say one of the probably the most serious explanatory factor. &gt;&gt; Let's move one more step to dollar stable coins. Treasuries made the argument that dollar stable coins are going to be a giant source of new demand for short-term treasury debt. There's not a ton of empirical evidence on on that. Would do you think largecale adoption of dollar stable coins would enhance the dollar's dominance as a reserve currency would be small enough that it would kind of wouldn't register or what what are the dynamics? I I think at this point all of us are trying to figure out where the demand for dollar stable coins will come from and that is crucially important because if it is coming only from people taking money out of banks and putting it in stable coins then you're obviously shifting from one kind of treasury demand to another kind of treasury demand and then the question is given all the risks associated with stable coins at this point including the fact that you I mean the ability to redeem at power is a very tiny set of events under which pe and people who can do it most most of us would have to go through exchanges and there's no atar at that point we'll see how this the regulatory act evolves then there is enough operational risk associated with it then there's enough liquidity risk associated with it so I find it hard to think of a reason why at least for domestic financial payment systems that there's going to be a huge demand for it which means it comes down to the cross border I think the cross border is the real thing. And in here, I'm actually kind of glad that the stable coin stable coins issuers exist because frankly the banks have been earning too high rents on crossber payments, right? And they will do it as long as they can and they will I think they're continuing to do it, but hopefully there will be enough of a thing. But in terms of where the demand will come from, uh I suspect that the real demand that could exist at this point given the configuration of stable coins is from the rest of the world and where there is a pent up demand for holding dollars. Now that now when it comes to that kind of demand obviously that kind of demand usually is trying to avoid capital controls AML CFT all of that which means they're probably less likely to put it in some kind of a genius compliant coin they're going to put it in something else and that something else can be backed by anything and not just treasuries so I don't think there's a onetoone demand that's going to go from rest of the world wanting to hold stable coins to that then increases the demand for US treasuries. &gt;&gt; Okay. You gave a keynote last year. What are you telling me? &gt;&gt; My mic is up. &gt;&gt; Okay. I'm too animated. I I hit the power button, I guess. Um, you gave a keynote speech last year that was about monetary policym in emerging market countries. one of the one of the main points and that is that the monetary policym depends on global financial conditions in a way that you know a big country or the ECB or something less. So do you think that the rise of crypto usage for these crossber transactions if we see that does that complicate monetary policy? Does it change the transmission mechanism for emerging market countries? How do how do you think about that? &gt;&gt; So I do think that among the policy makers in the world who should be paying particular attention to stable coins uh are emerging market developing countries central banks and their regulatory authorities because the capital controls that exist framework that exist works well with the traditional finance system. it doesn't work as well with uh with the new kinds of uh fintech that exists. And so I I mean I think regardless of how you feel about what the ultimate size of the demand is going to be, it's not a bad idea to take the moment to see whether whether your capital controls and your regulation are still effective in this uh new environment. I I do want to point out something very positive which we've seen over the last six seven years is that despite the many really once once in a century shocks and the Fed raising interest rates very sharply we haven't had any emerging market major emerging market crisis and what that tells you is that there are policies that one can follow at home that can maintain your stability and your monetary sovereignty. So what are those policies? I think one is a lot of these countries move to independent central banks, inflation targeting frameworks, macrocredential policies for their financial systems, fiscal policies not as great but still better than what it used to be. And so all of that has helped. So, you know, in the 1990s particularly, there was all this talk about the fear of floating, which was the fact that even though you had a sovereign choice about which currency you could have in your country, you were constrained by the fact that everybody wants to hold the dollar internationally. And therefore, when your currency moves around relative to the dollar, you would have high inflation. And so you were trying to keep your in a sense you were trading off a lot more domestic demand conditions with the exchange rate the value of the exchange rate that has come down a lot because the pass through from your currency exchange rate movements to retail inflation has come down a lot across the board &gt;&gt; in emerging and developing countries. So uh what it tells you is that even from a monetary sovereignty perspective as long as you have the right policies you can have resilience to a lot of shocks because I don't think we want to be in a world with 180 currencies being used in international transactions. I mean there are big network effects there good reasons why we have only one or at most two currencies world but you can still have that while at the same time making sure that you have uh you know macro and financial stability at home. Okay, let's pull it. You've you've described to us your clairvoyant abilities in COVID to predict growth. Let's pull out the crystal ball. You look around the global economy now. How does it feel? What do what do you see for the US? What do you see Europe, Asia, emerging markets? What is what is the state of the economy? Are we is some discussion in monetary policy circles as well as analysts that in the US context one group says fragile the job market looks weak maybe this could be the beginning of recession the other side saying no no no it looks very stable everything's going fine how how does it feel to you &gt;&gt; I I think right now first of all there's no hair on fire kind of situation &gt;&gt; I I'm I'm covered at that if that is that develops not a problem not a problem &gt;&gt; we have uh I I mean I would say that at least in the like for 2026 it's a perfectly reasonable assumption to make that the global economy will grow at the same rate it grew last year which is around 3.2%. there is the tailwinds that come coming from AI and AI investment and from you know monetary policy that it at the minimum appears not to be tightening at this point and fiscal policy that's going to be stimulative and it's not just for the US I mean this is around the world if you're part of the global supply chains for AI you're getting a lot of tailwind from that stock markets are up there that helps with wealth and so on right so and there's nothing that you would stare at immediately and say, "Well, this is clearly obviously problematic. If it was, I guess I wouldn't be sitting here." But &gt;&gt; you I would be making some bets. The um the point is is about what's what's underlying it, right? I mean in the sense what is kind of remarkable is that despite this very high level of uncertainty in the world and despite big shifts in what the global order and so on if you look at financial conditions they seem really kind of sanguid right I mean it's great the the markets are where our markets are where they are equity premium is not large the uh spreads are pretty tight and this is true again not just for the US but pretty much around the world that this is a phenomenon and so I do worry about about that risk. I do worry about whether we could have a place where we have what look like stretched valuations everywhere including in US treasury bond market one of the core funding markets of the world that that can change um rapidly and that's something we have to pay uh we have to pay close attention to &gt;&gt; are you less so that let's call that the bubble popping scenario and you've you've spoken about both the welcoming of AI, general purpose technology could increase productivity growth, but also the valuations of these firms being high if they're less leveraged than the housing bubble was or that previous bubble was. Are you less nervous of what that might mean for financial stability or are you all still worried about the financial stability impact of that kind of a asset valuation bubble? &gt;&gt; So I guess a a good parallel that we could think of in terms of what could happen if there was a stock market correction now is what happened. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Right. And so.com was in a sense yes there was a very big stock market correction but for the real economy it was a it was a soft one nothing nothing dramatic and a quick recovery I think this time around what we have to keep in mind is just the scale of exposure to the markets is much larger than it was back then both if you look at stock market valuations the share of uh GDP the amount households holding not just the US but the rest of the world's holding of US equities is twice as high in terms of the share of GDP of the rest of the world as compared to what it was uh during the com. So the consequences I think even if we assume the rest of none you know everybody else is just extremely well healthy balance sheets and no leverage issues. I think just the consumption effect, the effect on &gt;&gt; literally the wealth effect on consumption. In the 2000 episode, of course, the recession came about because business fixed investment ramped way down because of perceived overhang blah blah blah. Right. &gt;&gt; So, but you will highlight the wealth effect. If valuations go down, you might see it on the on the spending side. &gt;&gt; There was some of that even in 2000. Yeah. But just in terms of the magnitude of it, it can be much much bigger now. &gt;&gt; And then of course there's a second part which is what we were discussing earlier today which is that we have more and more corporate borrowing that relies on &gt;&gt; NBFIS &gt;&gt; and we don't have that much visibility on all the different pieces of NBFIS and the connection between MBFIS and banks and so on. So in a sense we've never had a crisis with such a large NBFI sector in the past. Okay. Well, that we're we're we're perfectly on time. You're you're right on time. That's a great moment to come back to NBFIs and liquidity provision and and uh an emergency. Please join me in giving a round. Thank you.