SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yr9ZL_8gN2M
TYPE NOTE: Official Cleveland Fed YouTube livestream (ClevelandFed channel); no text transcript posted. YouTube auto-caption with light name/jargon cleanup.
EVENT: Opening remarks, Inflation: Drivers and Dynamics Conference 2026 (Cleveland Fed / ECB), Cleveland, Sept 24, 2026

Heat. Heat. All right, everybody, if you could please take your seats. Um, we'll get started here in just a moment. So, I don't I hate to interrupt the great conversations that are happening about inflation. All right. Well, formally, um, welcome everybody. Thanks for joining us today. My name is Ed Knotek, director of research here at the Cleveland Fed. Um so on behalf of my colleagues here at the Center for Inflation Research at the Cleveland Fed and our colleagues at the European Central Bank, um we're delighted to be hosting this year's um annual inflation drivers and dynamics conference here in Cleveland. Um before we officially begin, let me run through some logistics and uh background materials for us all. Um so a key logistical item, the restrooms are through the doors, past the elevators and to the left. Um, so now you you know where those are. Um, in terms of following along, we have paper copies of the agenda um, outside through the doors if you did not pick one up on your way in. The good news is that we have a robust virtual audience joining us today. Um, so if you are joining this conference on Zoom, you are in listen and view mode only. So that means you'll be able to see and hear us, but we will not be able to see and hear you. Um, if you have a question, that means that you'll have to put that into the Q&A at the bottom of Zoom. Um, the agenda for Zoom is available on the resources tab in each session. Um, we will be recording today's conference and we'll post it to our website as soon as possible. So, if there's some nugget that you miss, you can go back and watch it later. Um, so we'll have diff several different presentation formats over the course of the conference. For our longer paper presentations, we've allocated 55 minutes total for them, 30 minutes for the author to present the paper, 15 minutes for our discussants, and the remainder of the time for Q&A. We'll also have a session with short presentations where we'll have four presentations over the course of an hour, 10 minutes per presenter, five minutes of discussion, and then a poster session after lunch tomorrow. Um, for our presenters, we will have a countdown timer up here to hopefully keep things moving on time. So, to ensure that everybody, including our virtual audience, can hear you. Um, there are microphones on your table. So, if you have a question, please use a microphone. You want to hit a button, it should light up, and then everybody can hear you just fine. And again, for our online audience, if you have questions, you can put them into the Q&A um at the bottom of your screens. and our session chairs will lead the Q&As's by calling on people either here or reading off items from online. Um, and as with any hybrid conference, there's a lot of room for error. Um, we have we have a great tech team who will hopefully keep the train moving smoothly. So, with that, um, let's turn to our very strong conference program. Opening our conference today is Beth M. Hammack, who serves as president and chief executive officer of the Cleveland Fed, responsible for all the bank's activities, including those related to monetary policy, bank supervision, and payment services. President Hammack has more than 30 years of experience in finance, capital markets, and risk management. She's also served on several advisory groups to the US Department of the Treasury and the financial industry. Before joining the Cleveland Fed, she was co-head of global financing at the Goldman Sachs Group Incorporated, where she was a member of its management committee. She's worked closely with US policy makers as chair of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee and is a member of the Financial Research Advisory Committee and the Treasury Market Practices Group, the latter of which aims to advance financial industry best practices. President Hammack is the chair of the board of the nonprofit Math for America. She's a member of the University Hospitals board of directors, a member of the Greater Cleveland Food Bank board of directors, and a Greater Cleveland Partnership board observer. Beth, thank you for joining us today. To kick things off, I'll turn the podium over to you for your remarks. >> Great. Well, thank you so much. Thank you, Ed. Um and welcome everyone to our inflation drivers and dynamics uh conference. We really welcome everyone for being here. Um I think this is going to be a great two days of thoughtprovoking and stimulating discussions. So looking forward to it. Let me first start by thanking the organizers of the conference from the European Central Bank and the Cleveland Fed's Center for Inflation Research for once again putting together a really strong conference agenda. Um, the first edition of this conference was back in 2014 and it was originally held every other year. In 2020, we joined forces with the ECB to host the conference annually, alternating between Cleveland and Frankfurt. As many of you know, Frankfurt is often referred to as the heart of Europe, reflecting its central role in the continent's economic and financial landscape. And similarly here, our state slogan in Ohio is Ohio, the heart of it all, underscoring, among other things, its meaningful contributions to the US economy. At this conference, we find ourselves at the heart of inflation research, a place for collaboration on important research topics that will advance our understanding of inflation drivers and dynamics. Good policymaking relies on worldclass research. Maintaining price stability is the responsibility of central banks and the research literature has shown that only a central bank can deliver on that goal over time. We've made considerable progress in developing inflation models and measures that can better inform monetary policymaking but we still have much to learn. The research presented at this conference further advances our understanding on inflation dynamics and I'm grateful for all of the presenters and discussants joining us to help advance our thinking on this important area. I'm especially pleased to welcome our keynote speakers, Veronica Guerrieri from the University of Chicago and George-Marios Angeletos from Northwestern University who will be sharing their insights around global monetary dynamics and the fiscal monetary nexus respectively. Veronica will be joining us over Zoom as she unexpectedly had to travel to Italy. Before I go any further, let me note that the views I share this morning are my own and not necessarily those of the Federal Reserve system or my colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee. Let me turn to where things stand in the US. Current conditions in the United States indicate that output is growing at a solid pace and the labor market remains close to my definition of maximum employment, but inflation remains elevated and it has now run above the FOMC's 2% inflation objective for more than 5 years. The inflation outlook continues to be highly uncertain with risks tilted to the upside. One aspect that is proving especially challenging for monetary policy is the extended sequence of shocks that we've recently faced from both the supply side via tariffs and oil prices as well as from the demand side from the boom in capital spending related to AI. The conventional view is that monetary policy should look through a supply shock. The thinking behind that, as all of you well know, is that supply shocks tend to be transitory and lead to a one-time increase in the price level rather than a persistent increase in inflation or inflation expectations. Thus, policymakers can look through them when determining the appropriate path of policy. But when the environment is more prone to shocks or the shocks arrive one after another in a period when inflation has been elevated for years, there's a greater risk that an inflationary mindset could take hold. The longer that high inflation persists, the more challenging and costly it can be to bring it back down. The papers on tariffs and import prices being presented here today are especially timely, and I expect them to be extremely valuable for insights on issues related to pass through supply chains and the role of production networks. Because monetary policy affects the economy with long and variable lags, we need a reliable way to separate temporary moves in inflation from changes that are more persistent. Median and trimmed mean inflation rates offer one approach to estimating that underlying trend, but there's been a renewed interest in these measures lately. Cleveland Fed research has shown that we can sharpen the ability of these measures to identify the underlying trend by accounting for changes in the shape, particularly the skewness of the price change distribution. Inflation expectations have been central in models of inflation dynamics since the 1960s and 70s. And our monetary policy framework recognizes the importance of keeping those expectations well anchored at levels consistent with 2% inflation. When we try to gauge how well anchored inflation expectations are, we've tended to rely on average inflation forecasts relative to our inflation objective. But forecast dispersion and forecast uncertainty also matter for how well inflation expectations are anchored. Researchers at the Cleveland Fed have developed measures of inflation expectations anchoring that accounts for this dispersion and uncertainty across survey respondents so we can extend our focus beyond just the average. In fact, one paper at this conference is examining how a central bank can communicate forecast uncertainty and facilitate better anchoring of inflation expectations. As you all know, inflation expectations aren't directly observable. So, as a policy maker, I have to look at a number of different measures. Consumers and professional forecasters expectations have been studied extensively, but until recently, we've had far less information on firms inflation expectations, even though firms are the ones setting prices. The Cleveland Fed publishes the survey of firms inflation expectations. And we've recently added questions to that survey covering expectations for prices, costs, employment, and wages. The session at this conference focusing on inflation and firms behavior will add further evidence on this front and help to identify features that can be incorporated into macro models. Beyond simply monitoring, it's important for us as policy makers to understand how the inflation expectations of households and firms will actually react to the data and to our communications. As the paper using large language models shows, new advances in AI tools offer an interesting and possibly unique method for us to gain further insights into how inflation expectations are formed. Additionally, the conference will feature papers discussing monetary policy across a range of topics that include housing inflation, financial constraints, and the linkage between credible inflation targeting and macro finance trends. So, there's a lot of ground to cover in the next two days, and I'll be back tomorrow afternoon when I am joined by Vice President Vujčić of the European Central Bank and Deputy Governor Heath of the Bank of Mexico for a panel discussion moderated by David Wilcox of the Peterson Institute Institute and Bloomberg economics. So let me conclude by again thanking the organizers, our keynote speakers, our presenters and discussants and all of you for being a part of this conference. I want to encourage everyone participating to keep pushing forward on these important inflation questions and I hope to get as much out of this pro and I hope you get as much out of this program and I get as much out of this program as I expect to and hope to. Enjoy the conference. Thanks very much. Good morning everyone. Uh thank you uh president. Uh it's a great pleasure to be here in Cleveland and uh it's also a pleasure to to say Got the