Speech
Ferrying Through the Crosscurrents
March 30, 2026
John C. Williams
, President and Chief Executive Officer
Remarks at the Staten Island Economic Development Corporation, Staten Island, New York City
As prepared for delivery
Introduction
Thank  you to the Staten Island Economic Development Corporation for hosting today’s  event. My last regional visit to Staten Island was a virtual one during the  pandemic. Even then, I rode the ferry to simulate the true Staten Island  experience before heading into a full day of online discussions about economic  conditions in the borough. So, it was a thrill to ride the boat over this  morning before visiting local businesses and meeting with leaders in person.
The  ferry is so iconic that it is immortalized by a Bob Dylan lyric. But traffic  patterns on the island can be a unique experience, too. Let’s chalk that up to  a strong New York economy that has recovered and then grown in the post-pandemic  era. That rebound has been the center of many conversations I’ve had today, and  we can continue that discussion here as well. But first, I’ll share some prepared  remarks about the U.S. economy and how the Federal Reserve is working to  achieve its dual mandate goals of maximum employment and price stability.
Before  I go further, I must give the standard Fed disclaimer that the views I express  today are mine alone and do not necessarily reflect those of the Federal Open  Market Committee (FOMC) or others in the Federal Reserve System.
A  Resilient Economy
Let's  zoom out from New York and take a look at the bigger picture—what's unfolding  in the economy across the country and around the globe.
Recent  developments in the Middle East have added a great deal of uncertainty around economic  activity in that region and for the U.S. economy. I’ll return to the  implications of geopolitical events later, but first I’d like to focus on where  the economy is today.
The  year began with the U.S. economy on a good footing. Despite heightened  uncertainty around the impact of trade and other policies, the economy has been  resilient, with growth remaining solid through last year and into the beginning  of this year. Consumer spending has been resilient and business investment has  been strong. And the unemployment rate has stabilized over recent months. Inflation  remains somewhat elevated due to the effects of tariffs, but those effects  should begin to dissipate later this year.
Mixed  Signals in the Labor Market
I’ll  now turn to one side of the Fed’s dual mandate: maximum employment. Here, we  are getting mixed signals, with some key indicators showing signs of steadying  while others are suggesting a weakening labor market.
That  said, recent indicators of labor market conditions do not point to a sharp  change in the balance between labor demand and supply. The unemployment rate  has fluctuated in a narrow band of 4.3 to 4.5 percent since last July, and  unemployment insurance claims remain low. So-called prime-age labor force  participation is near record-high levels, and the rate at which workers quit  their jobs to look for better opportunities has been broadly stable. In  addition, the New York Fed’s Labor Market Tightness Index, which measures how  difficult it is for businesses to find workers, has been relatively steady in  recent months.
1
And despite some ups and downs, payroll growth and the vacancy rate have not  displayed sustained changes in direction.
One  cautionary signal is around households’ labor market expectations. Perceptions  of jobs availability published by the Conference Board and job finding  expectations reported in the New York Fed’s Survey of Consumer Expectations  (SCE) both have been trending downward.
2
The SCE measure, in particular, may foreshadow a further decline in job-finding  rates in coming months.
The  recent movements in these survey measures could be a manifestation of the  low-hire, low-fire environment, where it’s a good labor market if you have  steady employment and not so good if you are looking for a job or worried that  you may need one soon. The low hiring rate, along with an increase in long-term  unemployment, may be contributing to a somewhat more pessimistic perception  among households than other indicators of the labor market might suggest.
Inflation  Crosscurrents
I’ll  turn now to the other side of the Fed’s mandate: price stability. While the  labor market has been sending an unusual set of mixed signals, inflation is  experiencing its own unusual crosscurrents due to the effects of tariffs and  developments in the Middle East.
As  measured by the Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE) price index, inflation  is currently hovering around 3 percent, with tariffs contributing between one  half and three quarters of a percentage point to this figure. In addition, the  significant increase in energy prices resulting from developments in the Middle  East will likely boost overall inflation in coming months, but these effects  should partially reverse later this year, assuming oil prices come down after  hostilities cease.
Uncertainty  around the future path of inflation is high. The conflict in the Middle East  could result in a large supply shock with pronounced effects that  simultaneously raises inflation—through a surge in intermediate costs and  commodity prices—and dampens economic activity. This has begun to play out  already. Until recently, the data have not been pointing to significant supply  chain bottlenecks, but we are now seeing supply chain disruptions related to  the supply of energy and related goods.
The  residual effects of tariffs and higher energy prices should increase headline  inflation in the short term. But there are still some positive trends. There  are no signs of significant second-round effects from tariffs spilling over to  the rest of the economy, and the labor market is not adding to inflation  pressures. Underlying inflation excluding imported goods has been moving in the  right direction. And importantly, most survey- and market-based measures of  longer-term inflation expectations—including the New York Fed’s Survey of  Consumer Expectations—are at levels consistent with the FOMC’s 2 percent goal.
Monetary  Policy and the Economic Outlook
This  is an unusual set of circumstances. But the current stance of monetary policy  is well positioned to balance the risks to our maximum employment and price  stability goals.
At  its most recent meeting, the FOMC decided to maintain the target range for the  federal funds rate at 3-1/2 to 3-3/4 percent.
3
And,  it stated that, “In considering the extent and timing of additional adjustments  to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully  assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks.”
Given  what we know today, I expect real GDP growth to be close to 2-1/2 percent this  year, reflecting tailwinds from fiscal policy, favorable financial conditions,  and investment in AI. With growth running above potential, I expect the  unemployment rate to edge down over this year and next. And with various  short-term factors affecting prices, I expect overall inflation to come in at  around 2-3/4 percent this year, before reaching our longer-run 2 percent target  in 2027.
Conclusion
It’s  an unusual time for the economy. There are substantial risks, and uncertainty  is high—particularly around the economic effects of the Middle East conflict.
I  am strongly committed to supporting maximum employment and returning inflation  to our 2 percent longer-run goal on a sustained basis. In assessing the future  path of monetary policy, my views, as always, will be based on the evolution of  the totality of the data, the economic outlook, and the balance of risks to the  achievement of our maximum employment and price stability goals.
1
Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
Heise, Pearce, Weber (HPW) Labor Market Tightness Index
, (January 2026).
2
Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
Survey of Consumer Expectations
, (February 2026).
3
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
Federal Reserve issues FOMC statement
, March 18, 2026.
By continuing to use our site, you agree to our
Terms of Use
and
Privacy Statement
. You can learn more about how we use cookies by reviewing our
Privacy Statement
.
Request a Speaker
International Seminars & Training
Governance & Culture Reform
Data Visualization
Economic Research
Tracker
Markets Data APIs
Podcast
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy
Site Map