SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sIiuFfzMyuk
TITLE: Global Monetary Policy and Institutional Challenges (High-level Policy Dialogue)
SPEAKERS: Jose Luis Escriva (Governor, Banco de Espana), Mary C. Daly (President, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco)
DATE: July 2, 2026
EVENT: 5th Conference on the Spanish Economy (Banco de Espana / CEMFI / UIMP), "Housing and Institutions: Challenges and Opportunities for Spain"
LOCATION: Santander, Spain
NOTE: Auto-generated YouTube transcript, no speaker diarization in source captions; speaker turns inferred from moderator cues and context during scoring.

Well, thank you, of course, to the governor of Bank of Spain and thank you to you, Mary, too for being with us. Before we begin and we want to focus on housing to a great degree, but I thought we are so lucky that we're joined by the head of the governor Spain and we're also joined by you because you came back from Sintra just now. Sintra is a very big central banking monetary policy conference put forward by the European Central Bank. And this year in particular in a way I was relieved because I thought we're so confused about the world, but it seems some of the best minds are also confused by it, too. So, maybe it's good. I think for me there's a lot of interesting takeaways in terms of technology, AI, artificial intelligence and features pretty much daily now daily life. So, I would like to ask you to the two of you, what did you take away from it just as at the scene? &gt;&gt; Governor, would you like to go first? &gt;&gt; As you wish. I mean, if if if I have to pick up a term, a word uh to label to characterize where we are, I would say is uncertainty. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; I mean, we are surrounded by a great deal of uncertainty and is a a kind of uncertainty that I would uh identify as non-tian in the sense that is sometimes very diffused. Is difficult to associate directly with the economic elements of terms and and and factors that guide in our decisions. So, dealing with uncertainty is is probably something that is common to all of us and we need to adjust our toolkits for that purpose. Uh we normally uh to rely in normal times on central scenarios, which has a a high likelihood of materializing. Uh but we are in a situation with these uh central scenarios probably are less uh central uh uh than normally, or they are subjected to changes and and and variations uh that can be very uh abrupt uh even in shorted periods of times. So, this is the characteristic, to me, the most relevant element uh that we need to factor in in our decision-making, in our analysis of the economy, and I think this is common to everyone with nuances with nuances. Uh actually, now one of the um elements that uh are particularly important to us is that the after the breakout of the Iran war, &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; uh the duration and persistence uh of the shock and the size of the shock has given rise to dynamics that we need to still to grasp, and that in the short run, at least, have given rise to increase in in in in the price in prices and high inflation. So, we have basically to determine, and this is not easy, the extent to which this is going to be purely short-lived, or whether might give rise to dynamics that may compromise over the medium term our our objective of um achieving price price stability. I mean, and this is changing I mean, from sometime from day to day, because this is very much associated to geopolitical situation that is is is very fluid. Uh that is one reflection I would like to make. Uh the second reflection that has also elements of uncertainty is that the the the the economies in general have certainly the US economy but also the Spanish economy is showed or showing a great deal of resilience. As is really I mean I mean different kind of shocks that can be potentially negative tends to have a more limited impact on on economic developments employment that originally expected and that's something is also something on which we need to reflect. And at the same time we have we are in the in the middle of a in technological revolution with the AI and related technologies. This also bring uncertainty because not necessarily negative uncertainty but uncertainty in in the determine how much this is already impacting on the economy in terms of higher demand for investment in this area but also to try to identify the extent to which but productivity gains and efficiency gains that in principle are expected as a result of this general purpose technology with a lot of potential are already in the making and the extent to which how much and also timing here is very important also in order to adjust our our thinking but also the the instruments we use like potential output that are relevant to us. So here also there is a uncertainty maybe the end effects are easier to to anticipate but of course for for policy makers Uh, the the horizon which are relevant, are not necessarily very long. I mean, so that's the reason we we think we need to also to work a lot. And this is one of the areas in which more resources and analysis is devoted. And looking forward, it is going to be the case, no doubt. I will stop here. &gt;&gt; Okay, thank you. I will just uh second what you've said. I think that's uh those are the same topics that I heard myself. I want to add things to it so that I'm uh being additive here as opposed to just saying the same thing a different way. The the one thing that you could that I walked away with. So, I go there and as Maria said, there's there's this sense that the world is uncertain. As Jose said, there's uncertainty. There's so many shocks coming our way. Not really sure how the shocks will play out in in different places. And but there's a recognition that as policy makers, as central bankers, we're all trying to achieve the same thing, which is use our old tools and history and combine them with how they might be how the world might behave differently as we move forward for a variety of reasons. One, all the countries, even though we're faced by the similar events and we face the same uncertainty, we are in different places. We have different rates of growth at this point. We have different ways we've recovered from the pandemic. We have different previous strengths. And it's not just about the institutions are different. It's that the economies have responded different to the various shocks that we've faced. And so, as policy makers, we can't just look to each other and say, "What did you do? I'll do it." You have to think how your policy is specific for your nation, which is what we always do. But there's a sense sometimes when there's a a global shock that you everyone responds. The pandemic was going to be one of those that everybody just puts all their resources to it. It was about the amounts and timing, but it was all resources to it. Now, you know, the ECB just raised rates. Other other central banks are holding steady. Some are in different places, some have different time frames over which they make decisions. And I found that in many ways reassuring and President Lagarde said something that I really took away one in her remark during the policy panel. She said that this shouldn't be misread as divergence in thinking. It should be read completely I think Andrew Bailey said first, this should be read as we're all facing the same shocks, but we have very different starting points. And those starting points matter. So we I I think you'll see more and more places where policy decisions could be different, but policy motivations, the way we think about things will be identical. Price stability in the United States case, full employment, and how do we navigate that? And as we you know, as Jose just talked about, we have AI, a technology shock. We have the for many countries, including the US, the tariff shocks, that oil price shocks, the uncertainty about whether we're really going to stay around $70 a barrel now or where something else will happen, how quickly these shocks will dissipate, are they really as we've traditionally looked at them as economists, are they simply look through shocks because they're they're not meant to last forever or do they have some fundamental way in which they bleed into the economy and change things? And then now there's the new in the United States anyway, there's the new investment shock of AI, which is competing for resources in a time frame where people are wondering, not knowing yet, wondering whether that itself will be inflationary and will be in this horse race between the investments creating a demand shock, but the supply shock, the positive supply shock not being quite in front of us yet. And truth is, we don't know the answers to these questions and and trying to think about them with the patience that central banking requires. If you act too quickly, you can be premature to to bridle things that you shouldn't and if you act too slowly you can let inflation take off in a way that that would be unwelcome to our to our citizens. So, those are the balancing acts I think we're all facing and I really thought that the conference was a great way to have everybody together. There's a there's a sense of camaraderie when you're all there with other central bankers from across the globe, not just from the ECB obviously, and and all talking. So, thank you for that question. &gt;&gt; And and President Daly, just to pick up on this San Francisco is a very unique place in the world. We're talking about this before. It's very difficult to come up with a city that sort of has that genesis around it. You're also the center and I wonder if you think it's a revolution this AI revolution. Revolution means it will touch every aspect of life, will be here in 20 years and it will look fundamentally different. How much time do you think about AI in your daily life? &gt;&gt; Oh, I think about AI all the time. I you know, it's for for so many reasons. You know, we we started a center on emerging tech thinking about AI in particular in 2023 in January 2023 largely because we could see it already peeking into businesses not just of the companies that were developing the LLMs and the technology, but also businesses that were starting to use it in the services industry and manufacturing. But at that point it was we were talking about a 10-year window. That's what companies were telling us. Oh, in 10 years, 5 years we'll see something from it. That has accelerated at a rate of speed that I haven't seen in a technology before. I think it's only you have to go back in the United States to something like electrification. Once we started it up, it was electrification took a 100 years, but the the end part of that curve, the there was a very flat part and then an exponential rise in how electricity shaped the world and how it created productivity growth and that seems a little bit like what we're seeing. I don't I think we're in the very early stages of this, not at the point where this is we're seeing the productivity gains yet, but the the really interesting thing that I think maybe all of you will find is that I didn't want to be so San Francisco-centric. That's certainly where you can find the enthusiasts, but I was worried that I was missing out on the doom sayers. Where were the Where were the people who were very negative about this? So, you know, if you drew a continuum, there'd be the doom sayers and the enthusiasts, and there were very few people in the middle. Now, there's a lot of people in the middle. And I don't mean just consumers, I mean firms. So, I have the nine states in the western United States. Those are states that we define as the intermountain, like Utah, Nevada, places where you might think Rocky Mountains, but you don't necessarily think technology hubs. And then we have Alaska and Hawaii as well, and all the coastal states. And so, I started traveling. I always traveled these locations, spent a lot of time doing this, but where was I seeing AI really pop up in terms of using it manufacturing? In those states that weren't the makers of the models, they were the users of the models. And they were first using it for how do I get some cost reductions? It's a tight Remember back then, it was a very tight labor market in the United States. People were calling it frothy. Peop- Job, you know, people were changing jobs long you know, faster than they were staying at jobs, and it was just so they were using technology to try to fight that. Then came the we can do a lot more than we ever imagined. This isn't just going to be an iPhone. This is going to be something bigger. So, we went to that. And now people are imagining a world where the innovations that they've tried to make in their companies over time actually can be assisted in creating those idea spaces by AI itself. So, we're a long way from having this be everywhere in all companies. We're a long way from us being past the early adopters, but there's a sufficient number of early adopters, you're starting to see the competitors follow along. And I think that's the excitement. You know, no technology has ever created productivity growth on a sustainable basis if it was a narrow set. It was when it got into the businesses, it spread fully, then diffused, and people started changing their business process in order to have have have a long-term gain. So, I I'm starting to see that very early. This is not a Okay, so we're not in baseball land. We are in football land. So, and it is the World Cup after all. Does Spain play tomorrow? Today? Midnight? Oh. &gt;&gt; Earlier, I think. Uh &gt;&gt; Oh, good. So, I'll have a chance of watching the game. I can't stay till midnight. Um so, that's good. So, but but either way, we're in the very early stages of the of the match. And if you saw the Senegal-Belgium match last evening, we watched it um just as part of the ether being in Portugal, but I thought Senegal had so many chances and hadn't quite made it. They were going to surely win, and I got up this morning to realize that was completely different. So, I guess what I'm saying with this is that you we can't forecast what AI will do. And anyone who says they can is overstating the case in my judgment, but we can definitely start writing down what would be need to see to suggest that this has a lot of legs under it, and what would we see that suggests it's starting to cool off. I haven't seen any signs of cooling, and I've seen lots of suggestions that legs are forming under it. &gt;&gt; Well, thank you for that. I just want to give the floor to the governor of the Bank of Spain just to wrap this first part. Um to pick up on this, the president and maybe because America's a young country in comparison to European nations. &gt;&gt; We're 250 this year, but I just &gt;&gt; So, so well, but you you you tend to be perhaps because of that very optimistic, and everything is an opportunity. The Europeans would say that conversation needs to also come with the risks. And there's a question also to about the the regulations. But I wanted to the governor of the Bank of Spain, she thinks about AI daily. Do you think Europeans should be thinking more profoundly about artificial intelligence or are we we just don't talk about it so much? &gt;&gt; No, I I think that we are going to see a diffusion. It's It's certainly that in in the United States, I mean, they have originated the large language models. They are training them. But, when you enter into the economics of AI looking forward, I mean, the training of the models or in the the construction of the models is very small part of the value added. So, the key thing will will be This also applies actually to data centers that now in in the United States are booming. In Europe, I I tend to believe this is going to come. And the reason I think it's going to come is because when you when you examine carefully the the use of the data centers, which is driving now investment in the United States, I mean, the actual the actual use for training the models is relatively limited and will remain limited. The bulk of the use is sometimes for not necessarily AI directly, but cloud services that are also um spreading very much and there's migration from legacy um technologies uh and software and and hardware to to this cloud more efficient environments. So, this is part of the data centers. And Europe is lagging behind, but should catch up. I think yeah, we should expect to catch up so with some delay. But, the second use probably [clears throat] the most important one, which is projected, is to use the data center for inference. For inference, which is uh the interaction between the ultimate users and the modeling, which is uh in the in the in the in the cloud. So, this inference is very much um as it it has it cannot be done very remotely. I mean, for data data governance issues, but also for lack of uh for for you you cannot do it you have to be relatively close. So, in a way, I mean, if we believe that all these valuations behind the hyperscalers, I mean, certainly they will have to invest and they will have to work with agents and with users all over the world, and Europe is a major market for them. So, I think those who are optimistic am I I'm really optimistic when when I you examine what is behind should expect, but maybe not to the extent, but through many channels, we should see something in the years to come similar in Europe. I mean, it's I think it's unavoidable. I mean, we we maybe we we maybe a slower in adoption and diffusion, maybe even the productivity gains might be not as large, but in a way, I think it's I mean, let me put the example of electricity. It took far more, and here the the diffusion is very rapid across countries, but certainly electricity has a major impact like any other energy revolutions all over the world sooner or later. So, here is the the same thinking. Maybe it's a matter of timing, but I I cannot see otherwise. So, that's that's my thinking. &gt;&gt; Well, thank you for that. Um and now the economies of Spain and the US are very different in many ways, but there's also a common theme, which is after the pandemic, uh, they experienced a return to growth much faster than many anticipated to. So, I wonder, uh, in this very rapidly changing world, uh, with also a clear return of force, there's a war happening in Europe as it stands, the US was literally in a war up until 2 weeks ago. Maybe it goes back, who knows? That's part of the uncertainty. Uh, I wonder, how do you see the medium-term outlook for both? And what are the risk factors that you keep in mind? With housing being part of this title, how much of that is something that you have to factor into all of your forecasts and some of those concerns that you may see certainly from the inflation perspective. &gt;&gt; Sure. So, I'll I'll start where, you know, as uh, as we've already talked about, there a modal or uh, the most likely outcome is not the place any central banker wants to live right now. It's just not a a good place. So, let me not give a modal outlook. Let me talk about the factors that will shape the outlook. And I do I believe completely in the scenarios. And even at this point, you would have to have a lot of you'd have to have a full matrix of permutations to understand all the scenarios we face, but you can definitely think, "Okay, these are these are the factors that are going to cause the evolution of the economy in any country." So, let me talk about the United States. I see the factors as we have very strong investment growth, exceedingly strong investment growth. And this investment growth is in AI, and it's driven in lot about physical construction, but also investment in software, not software so much, but AI equipment. So, all the things that go through that, and that's really, you know, computers and techno- IT equipment. And that's very strong, and I don't see any sense in which that's going to start coming down unless there's a sort of a hard stop in this because people are excited about this. The it's not just the model builders, it's the model users and you're getting some momentum. The that's that's really positive. The second thing that's happened is as cuz I always said, you know, that you just don't see this any signs of lack of resiliency in our economy. So consumers despite the fact that they've been dealing with high inflation, above target inflation for 5 years, they're just staying in the game. They're not the main driver of our growth, the investment side is, but they're not leaving either. And so that's a really good sign for our economy and I think reflects in part people still have employment. You know, that's a big part of how people spend their their money is if they have good labor earnings, they can spend. So where you go to the job market and it's steady. We had a little bit of concern last year that it might be softening, but now it's stabilized. We'll wait for the jobs numbers in just a few the half an hour or something like that for the US, but but one data point is not going to make or break our analysis of this. It really has across a variety of measures looked to be steady. So those are good really good ingredients. Of course, we have inflation still printing above target. In fact, inflation's risen on the back of some of the still the tariff effects and also the oil price shock, but now with oil prices back down to near 70 and futures markets thinking they'll stay there, that has some hope for relief. And that's why we just need right now it looks pretty good if you're looking as a central banker. For me, I'm say this is good for the United States growth rate, it's good for the US labor market and we continue to have policy in a slightly restrictive position, so inflation should come down. And there's all these risks. Everything I just said, AI investment, consumers resiliency, The fact that oil's down to sound to 70, the fact that we expect tariffs the tariffing puts or shocks to roll off, all of that has a question mark behind it. And the uncertainty bands around there still remain fairly large. So, I would say that's that's why I think there's a scenario where we have to fight inflation that turns out to be more persistent. There's also a scenario where the growth just doesn't continue to sustain itself because there's some there's something that pulls out either consumers or the investment slows because people are more worried or they haven't seen the gains yet. Those are not more likely than the last one, but they are are the risks that we face. And so, I that's an outlook that I will take relative to some of the challenges we've come through, but it's not an outlook that just means we can reflexively decide right now to give forward guidance. That's why you see a lot of central bankers not moving away from the principle. I will speak for myself. I don't move away from the principle about forward guidance. I understand its importance in monetary policy, but you know, the worst kind of guidance you can give is certain guidance in an uncertain world. And so, that would be false guidance and not forward guidance. And that's why I'm really focused on the action functions and also how I see that the shaping of the economy in the outlook, not the the outlook itself or anything about policy specifically. &gt;&gt; Right. Just to be clear for you, the biggest risk for the global economy now is the situation around the Strait of Hormuz. &gt;&gt; Well, you know, hopefully that is in full resolved and that would be a good thing. I mean, you know, geopolitical issues are something that central bankers don't control. And so, we we really take the economy that we have and that's why I say there's question marks around everything, but it's very good news for consumers and economies that oil is back near $70 a barrel. &gt;&gt; Well, thank you for that. A question to the governor of the Bank of Spain on that note. If you look at the Spanish economy on paper, the Spanish economy is performing very, very strongly. Uh the numbers would say it is growing at a triple rate compared to Germany. If you compare it to a proxy country like Italy, it is also outperforming Italy by a big degree. And even if you say there's been an injection of European money, which has been the case, the Italians also had a big injection of money and we've not seen that performance reflected in the economy. However, I wonder what are the risks that you think about in terms of maintaining the outlook in the medium term? And then there is a reality, which is we see it in the numbers, too. The conversation around housing and renting and buying a property in Spain is becoming not just very political, but really a serious economic issue in terms of the paycheck and the impact it has on salaries. How are you bringing all of that into your assessments? &gt;&gt; [cough] [clears throat] &gt;&gt; Well, first um I think that in spite of the fact that we are growing very strongly over 25 years since COVID, I think that business cycle exist. So, at a certain point in time, we will see a cyclical downturn. Uh and something that we are stressing is that we need to look carefully into the public finances uh because the the level of debt remain high. And also um we have now a new framework in Europe for medium-term fiscal planning. And uh I think we we we should make use of this framework in order to enhance and strengthen our budgetary medium-term policies. And and and in particular uh I think it's important that we assessed the extent to which public policies primarily those oriented to growth enhancing policies are really well designed. Are we expect results in terms of expanding potential output as it has been claimed. But for that we need more evidence, more analysis, more let's say changes in the procedures whereby these plannings that are produced every year or even semester [snorts] are designed and agreed upon. So I think that's that's one element that I think we need to take care of. I think we also need to ensure that certain policies that so far has been beneficial to the Spanish economy and that has resulted for I would say continuation of policies and decisions over long periods of time where certain consensus had been reached that this is kept. In particular, I think something that we are benefiting from is is no doubt is from a strong job creation while in other parts of Europe the bottlenecks in the labor market are emerging. Here we have I don't I don't I wouldn't say that this is perfect by no means and I recently mentioned a number of problems in particularly in all of has to do with with active labor policies. But if you take some perspective you realize that in the Spain we have had three labor reforms, one in 2010, one in 2012, and one in 20 2021-22. And in a sense, these policy reforms that have been taken by different governments in different moments have tended to retain the good elements of the previous one or not reverse them, and at the same time, adding new elements that were partly needed. So, this kind of approach uh that we have seen, for instance, in in this kind of reforms should be extended to other areas of the economy where we don't have uh such a medium-term perspective and consensus-building approach. Um we are benefiting now, uh no doubt, from uh lower um &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; energy prices, particularly electricity, for for for firms. Um and this is very tangible. I mean, this is also the result of policy sustained over time with a a strong um focus on on renewable energies and investments and incentives-driven. So, I think this is something that we need to understand that is uh becoming a positive supply shock to the economy. It's important to retain that. Uh and I think uh as as you said, um uh house is is a major problem. Uh affordability, severe affordability problems are um present, and we we have to examine this very carefully, and we really need to address the the housing problem as as a major challenge looking forward. And I think this requires a great deal of coordination of the three levels of administrations that are involved. I mean, uh sometimes uh is is that we we not good at is in uh uh coordinating and having a good understanding of of the various competencies across this economy. So, we have put a lot of emphasis in in our two last reports on the need to enhance uh uh the the institutions, the quality of of the institutions. Uh and I think there is still a lot of room for improvement here. And uh high-quality institutions or better institutions uh would be uh essential to to for for to support productivity gains. And I think in this respect, I mean, something we have to stress I mean, it's part of the discussions in in this conference is the density of of regulation. This is a very European problem. Not not necessarily a Spanish one or or not exclusively a Spanish one, but we have a very dense complex regulatory frameworks. Um bureaucracy tends to be a stifling for [snorts] um uh economic agents. And this is well well identified. So, I think and it is up to the various administrations to address this in a decisive manner. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Um Yeah. &gt;&gt; And to that point, can I just to follow up on the question? &gt;&gt; Uh &gt;&gt; There's some analysis that say in some parts of the country the cost of rent is now taken up 50 to 60% of a person's salary. 60 would be to me seems very extreme ultimately at that point. Um Some would say this is unsustainable over time. I wonder if you see this as an anomaly at a point in time or something that will become more entrenched. And you said there's a sort of excess density of regulation at times. Can you help us understand based on your research the sort of inflation in the housing market in Spain. Is it driven by regulation or is it driven by a new type of buyer or is it cash is being deployed now in the real estate market more than 10 years ago? How is this happening? What's driving this? [clears throat] &gt;&gt; It It's primarily driven I think this is undisputable by a very large supply against a background or reactivation of of demand for housing that has been relatively poor for a number of for a number of years after the crisis and particularly after the COVID with the increase in the Spanish population but also with a number of factors that also driven the Spanish economy that has to do with tourism with external demand for housing for tourist purposes or direct acquisition by foreigners adding to all pending creation of households from the previous crisis has given rise that the the demand is is a strong but it is is expected to be a stronger in the current juncture and with with with the the dynamics that are normal in this situation what is more is really the the deep problem is that the supply is proving to be more sluggish far more sluggish than expected and then necessary no doubt and this is given rise to to a imbalance in the in the in the housing market &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; both in in in purchases but also in rental and is creating is pushing prices and and rents up very rapidly. And this is particularly true in some part of Spain in large cities and and also in tourist areas. And the affordability problem that is rising is is particularly acute. In our last report, annual report that was presented a few weeks ago, actually we we we have made a careful comparisons with in terms of affordability with European countries. And also we have taken a very long perspective since 1980. I think this is is relatively unique. And what we see is that that the affordability problem in Spain is singular compared to our to our neighbors and that this has become particularly um acute in the recent period. We we also concluded that the the affordability problems in relative terms to our European partners is primarily driven by prices not by rents not by income household income is primarily has to do with rent. I mean because this affordability is basically a there are two components in the numerator and the denominator. So our problem is is primarily prices no doubt. And it's a medium-term problem that has become more severe in the recent time. I think that that's that's our diagnosis. And okay on on on the what is behind this sluggish supply? I mean this variety of factors has been well analyzed by many but I I think it's primarily twofold on if I want to aggregate these these elements on the one hand is that the construction sector is performing not particularly well after very much affected by prices crisis after the boom. So we have very low productivity and profitability in the sector. We have a very small size of the companies. Industrial construction that should be elements certainly is not &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; growing as as should be. There are some problems in the labor market in spite of what I said before. If there are problems in the labor market with shortages are in particular professions in the construction sector. Just to give you an indication and I think it's in the another report. I mean we don't expect to come back to the level of employment absolute level of employment of 2007 or 2008, but we are well below quite well below the level of employment in 1999 in absolute terms and compare the the population in Spain in 25 years ago and now. So certainly there are significant shortages in the labor market for the construction sector in in key professions and this is also a problem for &gt;&gt; So the cost of construction is more expensive and the construction workers you cannot find them in the numbers that you did &gt;&gt; It's more expensive, but more than that simply the supplies is is not efficient. I mean overall is not efficient and and there are factor constraints. Also capital I mean sometimes is mentioned capital, but it has to do more with the size and the profitability of the companies here. I don't think it's a problem because of the credit market and mortgage. Sometimes it's mentioned we have examined carefully. I we don't think this is a key factor. The other element that is quite important is the what I I I I I I mentioned before is the way the the the regulation in the in the in the in the housing market is is operating. I mean, the density of the the way also the the the administrative apparatus work. I mean, what we have seen also is that given the dimension of the problem, we have seen that in particular at the level of municipalities, they should reinforce and enhance their teams working in this area, and this is not happening as it should. There is also a problem that sometimes is somewhat overlooked. That's for a number of reasons that would take longer to explain. I think those who have to make individual decisions about the permits for for construction are subjected to a great deal of research and this delays decision-making. I mean, no doubt. So, it's a combination of factors. I mean, also has to do with changes that are badly needed at the level of of the national law on on on on for land, but also the simplification between the regulations at the level of the regions and the municipalities is also something where there's still room for improvement. So, this is the second factor uh global big factors explaining this sluggish supply. &gt;&gt; Uh personally, I'm sure that in San Francisco, if you want to build, you can get a permit much quicker and begin to build uh probably quicker maybe in comparison to that. I I don't I think you might have overstated that a little bit. &gt;&gt; No, okay. Well, I don't know the exact times, but I don't think it's fast anywhere, and you'll hear the same complaints in the US as we just heard. &gt;&gt; As the &gt;&gt; Yes, it's just it's just not that different and supply I will just completely underscore is the biggest problem. Housing demand is there, housing supply is limited. We have a history of, you know, after the financial crisis it was just slow, slow, slow and population didn't slow down as much as as housing construction did. And that's left a mismatch between demand and supply. And even when housing inflation has come down, housing demand is just pent up waiting. If there were more houses, people would move into them, but right now we don't have that. Mortgage interest rates were sort of a constraint and and actually kept that from looking as imbalanced as it is. But now that mortgage interest rates are are not low, but they're lower and housing inflation has been coming down in the United States, not rising, I think this is just a problem that the central bank cannot solve. The Fed is not going to be able to solve this, but it is a problem that I hear is I hear it second to inflation is housing. If you look at our conferences in the United States, they would look very similar to the lineups here, housing, housing, housing, inflation, housing. &gt;&gt; And can I ask you to that note, you know, when it comes to the permits and permissions to build and the the ability to do it quickly, then beyond that San Francisco is also it's a very particular case because you have, well, a lot of the all of these millionaires, they have the billionaires. I'm not sure if Elon Musk is a resident of San Francisco. I guess he is, but well, then you would not have a one trillionaire, but that exists too. And then you also have this workforce that used to have this very well-paying jobs, but they come in and they disappear, then they go back into tech. And then there are real pockets in which, you know, there's a real question about people that cannot afford a decent household. Putting all of this together, what are the experiences that you draw from it and are there any lessons perhaps perhaps that you would like to share? &gt;&gt; No, there's no way I will be able to summarize the US experience in housing. As as you know, we're a large and very diverse country in many ways, but there is a unifying theme in housing right now that you might not expect unless you have visited or or know or go there, is that and this was confirmed by we you could see this when you go anywhere in the United States. You'll see people talk about housing affordability. And they don't mean for low-income workers, they mean across the board. They also don't have any They're not particularly geographically represented or it doesn't matter what political party you're from, what age you are, how much education you have. It really is across the board. So, this was confirmed, I think Take did a study of this. It's about 3 years old at this point, but I it was striking. They did it by race, ethnicity, education, gender, age, and 5-year age groups, location, religious preference, political preference, and and income. And across the board, housing was considered the number one problem that the US faces. And so, you start to dig into that, and what you learn is it's it's not It is really housing demand I mean, is is outstripping housing supply, but that's for parents or grandparents who want to live next to their kids to see their grandchildren, and they can't move. Or the kids can't live in the location their parents raised them because it's become too expensive. And so, and then mobility feels more limited, so people don't feel like they can move where the jobs are because sometimes they can't find a house. And then people who have small families and now want to have a bigger family, or their big their families is growing in size, they can't move up because there's not the right size property. So, I think it has meant that it is is now sitting where it needs to sit, which is at the federal government, at the at the state governments, at the not just at the local governments, and hopefully that will bring some that focus will bring some some relief. But, what I find striking is that whether you're in Spain or other parts of Europe or the United States, these challenges are are very similar. And I think, you know, economists have done a lot of work to trace it back to some of the the elements of this go all the way back to the financial crisis when housing was, you know, at least in the United States significantly affected. And after that, the industry just doesn't the dynamics of it aren't the same. And then, of course, that's got all their competing things like AI, data centers, etc. But, really it's all the way back to there. That's where in the United States the wedge started to form between housing demand and housing supply, and every year it's gotten a little worse. &gt;&gt; Well, thank you for that. I have gone over my time, but I just have a final question. Um, perhaps some of &gt;&gt; That's a that's a moderator prerogative, right? Over the time and you still have a question. &gt;&gt; I have a final question just very briefly before we put it to uh the audience, of course. Uh given that we've talked about all of these big changes, um the AI, uh the impact that it may have, worse productivity gains, but also perhaps uh you know, people who will lose jobs out of this. Um the housing market, the way we look at inflation, should we not maybe change the definition, but the way that we assess it, should that be changed? The mandate from the ECB and the Fed is similar approximately. You obviously focus on jobs, too. But, I wonder uh is this a time at which you say the way in which we measure and assess things is also in for a for for a revolution itself? &gt;&gt; A um formally a a we don't have a dual man mandate and not only formally the matter of fact. I mean, we don't have a dual mandate as as the Fed has, but I wouldn't overemphasize the difference in the sense that for two reasons. First, because in most cases, you really don't have conflicting objectives. Mhm? So, in a way, there are some occasions that would probably the the Fed faces dilemmas that we don't. But, I would say that in most occasions, we are basically operating very similarly similarly in terms of what we how we make our decisions, and underlying elements, and and judgments, and and instruments. And the second observation this is that Okay. I mean, I I wouldn't be very I don't find the word. I mean I mean, when you determine what is the appropriate monetary policy stance for price stability, this is not a single number. I mean, you move with some range, no doubt, because I mean [snorts] this is uncertain, and and there is some room for for variation around what you think is the appropriate stance looking at the price objective. So, in a way, it's natural, and I think it's absolutely compatible with our price stability unique mandate that we may have move in this range taking into account economic conditions. All the more because in in in the in the treaty for the the ACV is mandated to ensure in all the time price stability, but it's also indicated that we have to to the not conflicting with price stability objective to support and regional policies of the of the economic union. &gt;&gt; And President Lagarde, if you if we believe the world is about to make this leap into the unknown, into something new, which not necessarily means it's bad, not necessarily [laughter] means it's [clears throat] good. Would that be should that be reflected in the way that a central bank behaves, performs, and mandate, the different things that it has to measure to get a full picture? Is that something that you think about monitor policies and central banks will also have to adapt? &gt;&gt; So, the way I think about it, maybe I'll frame it this way, is that we have two mandates, price stability, full employment in the United States. Those are unmovable. That's what Those are mandates given to us by Congress. It was part of our formation, so those are absolutely set. The way I think of the question is does a new world with new challenges demand new tools, techniques, data? Yes, always. I wouldn't think of this as a new thing. I would think of this as something, and I've worked at the Federal Reserve as a young economist coming in a long time ago, and every single year researchers and conferences like these and people who work for the the central bank and also people who work outside of it keep pushing us to do our jobs more effectively. So, on inflation, yes, we should look for every over look under every stone and take an interest in where we can get better data, more data, and analyze it better, look at history, not only at our own country, but other countries. Absolutely. And for employment, the same thing. But, that doesn't mean that we move the goal posts of our mandates. First of all, we can't, and second of all, that is very bad for credibility and trust. You know, the when we were the best tool, in my opinion, that the Federal Reserve has or a central bank has is the trust of its people who were meant to serve. We exist to serve, in our case, the American people. And if we say, "Well, we're not there, so let's move it." then I don't think that's very good for our credibility or our trust. So, no, we're not moving the goal post, but we definitely will continue to study, modernize, and do better tomorrow than we did today. &gt;&gt; Well, thank you for that. We did go over time, but if you allow me, maybe I will just do if there's any questions from the audience, this is now the time to put them forward and then we're gone past what lunch time in in uh US times, but we can I'm sure take two questions, maybe three. Yes. &gt;&gt; I I didn't know savings in the world to finance data centers and and increase economic debt. Artificial intelligence is helping in in timing inflation and in the future productivity associated with artificial intelligence may tame inflation, but at the same time the investment that you need to be, you know, the winner of this of this of this competition is, you know, competing with the with the money that you need to finance public debt. Are the rates that we have right now, are there enough savings for both to be at the same time moving? &gt;&gt; So, you know, one thing that may not be known, it's certainly true that the the big investment companies are starting to borrow, but most of their work is financed through earnings, their cash flows, and so they're just taking that and investing it in this. And it actually represents not the largest part of their business. These are large large companies with lots of capabilities and they're putting a lot of investment into these data centers, which I would say are not just funding the competition to make better models. That's a fraction of what they do as as we talked about earlier. A lot of it's to to support the the cloud and putting the data together and making it accessible so that you can do these things. So, I haven't seen that as a as a major concern yet. The the you know, and we also know that it will or we hope um and and we actually increasingly believe that it will create productivity down the road. It's always going to be about this timing. What do we have today and what are the effects of it, especially in the monetary policy making window, and then what do we expect in the future and how long is that future away? So, I haven't seen that yet in the United States, largely because these companies have very large capacities and demand for what they're creating seems insatiable at this point. &gt;&gt; And actually the same uh companies are also behind the projects of investment in data centers for the same in Spain, I mean, primarily. And they rely very much on on on equity and so far. Uh we we are not nevertheless monitoring this at at the national level. I mean, I will take the national perspective because we are monitoring this very closely from a financial stability standpoint. And what we see is that um the potentially I see a risk here if um in the future uh the financing of this investment that I think will continue be very very strong uh uh because they have to support the innovation [clears throat] in terms of power uh that has so such a potential as a general purpose one. So, I I I am very convinced that this is going to continue. But uh as a central banker, we need to also carefully monitor uh potential financial stability problems. And these problems might emerge if this is leveraged. I mean this is this is financed with with debt. Something that to that so far is only to a limited extent compared to to previous episode, but we need to monitor how it works in the future. &gt;&gt; [gasps and sighs] &gt;&gt; And in in in in the in our case, we we what we can say is that the Spanish banking sector is is not behind uh over to a very very limited extent and not worrisome at all. In it's not behind the financing of these investments in the future. Already the the the investments that already are taking place in Spain now, but probably will intensify in the years to come. So, but that's an for this is an angle that we need we need to take as central bankers and and I think we we would closely [clears throat] we are monitoring closely this and we will continue to do so in the future. &gt;&gt; Okay. And I just can I just ask maybe it's a bit of a provocative question, but uh some of these companies, most of them based in the US, uh with these incredible valuations, but do you ever think of it and go maybe there is I'm not saying this will happen, but maybe you know, one day China comes up with like a super uh model, some of the valuations maybe go down because ultimately it turns out that there are others out there that can do it better or that can certainly match the US. Uh the US government makes it clear has made it clear that the US will win this AI race, but that's not uh guaranteed. Is there a moment in which you say, yes, there are risks uh around the perception valuations of these companies and what they will actually deliver and faced with competition that could be just as good? &gt;&gt; That's always a risk. I I I don't think that's a new risk. It's not like it's an emerging risk. It's just when you have things that are growing as quickly as they are, that as much you know, enthusiasm is in there as they are, then there's a risk of things happening. I don't think we should That's not I don't think it's about the risk, it's about the likelihood that you're or any evidence that you're seeing things that would make that risk move to the front of your desk as opposed to being that that second level of papers you have that are here the risks and here's how we watch them. So, very much like Jose just said, it's it's we monitor this. So, we have a a large monitor about financial stability and leverage matters a lot, but when most of it's financed out of equity and and cash flows, you just those are things that are helpful for us to see. If that changes, then that's really what can matter and so we have to monitor that. And then I think the competition is is of course healthy. It makes the product better and leads to further gains in the productivity growth that we're all looking for. So, I don't think it's risky to have competition, it's it's actually part of what you should expect. And whether it's coming from, you know, China or other countries, this sort of pressure to do better not just in the building of the models, but also in the delivery of outcomes from the models is really what will create will create the the the value that is behind some of the enthusiasm. &gt;&gt; I think there's a final question. Yes, still have time for one more? &gt;&gt; So, I thank thank you very much for for your words. Uh something that you have emphasized both here and in Sintra it was very similar is the speed of change, the uncertainty. Uh would you see a world where central banks change the frequency or uh the timing of their decisions on interest rates? &gt;&gt; Excuse me. Well, I I I'm not going to speak for the Federal Reserve here, and we certainly anything like that hasn't been discussed. But, what I would say is underlying the reason that that's not the top of the list is because we're looking 18 months, you know, 6 10, 12, 18 months ahead. So, the speed at which things change is less about the monetary policy decisions today, and more about the speed at which we have to learn, study, understand, debate, and and come up with, okay, what do we think is the best risk management strategy now when we have uncertainty. So, the speed of change just means everyone who works at [clears throat] the central bank is extraordinarily busy studying these things, but it doesn't mean we In fact, I would suggest it's it's the opposite of what you want to do. You don't want to react quickly when the world is changing quickly. You want to assess before you jump or act because you'll make better decisions. And so, there's always this pull as a human to say, let's go fix that. Let's go fix that. But, then you're just chasing balls of yarn like cats, and you may not step back far enough and say, what is the real lay of the land? How does this affect not just the temporary situation we're in, but the structural dynamics of the economy, the longer term um you know, divergences from the data and our our our goals. And so, I'm I'm much more of a gradualist when it comes to these things and taking it slowly to take it to do it well. &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; I mean, uh to the extent that we could we continue facing uncertain uncertainty, I mean, this calls for certainly calls for gradualism. I mean the the gradualism in in very technical terms is expressed in the reaction function of a central bank in the smoothing parameter. So, this is something that we can adjust. I mean, now I think that I mean the kind of reaction functions that are estimated that reflect the preferences of the central banks has a relatively high smoothing parameter and for good reasons, I would say. Uh because when it's very foggy and you are driving a car, I mean, what do you do? You are cautious, no? Uh you don't accelerate all of a sudden. I mean, that that's the kind of uncertainty which is prevailing so far. I mean, there is another type of uncertainty, it's true, which in well well you can see worst-case scenario. I mean, COVID is a good example of that, I would say, completely different. It was very uncertain the COVID at the beginning in terms of the duration, in terms of I mean, how how much we are going to affect. But, it was clear that it was very adverse scenario, genuinely depressive for the economy and deflationary. So, in a way you have to react very abruptly and very decisively. Uh and this is a different kind of uncertainty. So, it depends. I mean, depends on the state of the economy, let's put it technically.