SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t2rAlrfbBCE
CHANNEL: Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (official Fed channel)

August 06, 2026
"Keynote Remarks by Mary C. Daly at the ESRI International Conference"
Mary C. Daly, President, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
ESRI International Conference, Japan. Keynote address plus moderated Q&A
(chair: Professor Abbach, University of California Berkeley). Runtime 53:57.

PROVENANCE: Auto-generated transcript of the video published on the FEDERAL
RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO's own YouTube channel -- an official Fed channel,
not media. No text transcript posted to frbsf.org as of 2026-08-07.

TRANSCRIPT CLEANUP (auto-ASR; every change listed):
  "Barklay" -> "Berkeley";  "straight of horm" -> "Strait of Hormuz"
  "biodal" -> "bimodal";  "PC inflation" -> "PCE inflation" (tech equipment)
  "outside share" -> "outsized share";  "sanguin" -> "sanguine"
  Speaker turns marked ">>".
CAUTION: auto-transcript of a slide-driven speech; chart references ("you can
see on this chart") lack the visuals. Verify exact wording against the video
before treating any phrase as a verbatim quote of record.

DISCLAIMER STATED BY SPEAKER: "this is my judgment, by the way ... it doesn't
reflect the FOMC's views."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Next uh we move on to the keynote session. We are pleased to have Professor Abbach of the University of California Berkeley chair the keynote session. With that, I'd like to hand it over to Professor Abbach. Professor Abbach, please begin.

>> Thank you. Thank you very much. Uh it's it's a great pleasure to uh open the conference uh with a keynote speech by uh Mary Daly. Mary is uh the president and chief executive officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and indeed she's been uh uh at that institution for for three decades uh having started there as an economist uh then become the director of research uh and and finally uh becoming the president and CEO of the of of the San Francisco Fed. uh she's an economist whose uh uh expertise is in the areas of macroeconomics and labor economics and so she's uh really uh an ideal person to be in this position uh uh as one of the important contributors to monetary policy in the United States. Uh with that uh let me offer the floor to Dr. Daly to make her comments.

>> Uh thank you very much. I appreciate that introduction and thank you all for inviting me here to Japan to be part of this conference. I'm very much looking forward to discussion and I already can have had many discussions that tell me just how valuable this type of of conference is. So as I was thinking about what topics would be important to talk about at this juncture, I chose the the topic of economic shocks and monetary policy and thinking importantly about whether the conventional wisdom that holds in economics or a new dynamic, a new reality is forming in terms of how the shocks impact inflation. So today I'll look through the lens of the United States, but I think that is really a challenge that every central bank and every country is facing in some capacity because we're all experiencing the shocks that I will talk about in one moment.

>> So with that, I'd like to start with uh the US inflation picture. And the US inflation picture is one where we have had over five years of higher than target inflation. But that hides some of the dynamics that are going on underneath that. So after a decade of below target inflation, the pandemic brought a surge in inflation in the United States. We call it the pandemic surge. Then aggressive monetary action on the part of the of the Federal Reserve, brought the inflation back down to something like 2.4% before a series of shocks put it made it created an uptick. And these shocks will be familiar to you. We had tariffs starting in April of 2025, energy prices starting in March of 2026 associated with the war in Iran and the rise in oil prices, but other energy prices. And then the AI uh boom which accelerated in many ways this year because the the data centers began being augmented by the real investments in technology and software and putting that into the data centers and into the the model builder. So you these three shocks and I find it useful to just walk through what the three shocks look like in terms of the activity and then inflation.

>> So let me first begin by the tariff shock. So, you know, a simple picture which I think conveys the the level or the the rate of change that the tariffs brought to the United States and the global economy is that we had a tariff rate well below 5%. The uh you know right after liberation day it's well above 20 and it settled out to something like 11%. The statutory tariff rate as of the end of this of July. So that's the tariff shock but then you see it in goods price inflation. So this is from PCE inflation in the United States. And you can see immediately right after the announcement and beginning some enforcement of tariffs. The goods prices began to rise after having been in a deflationary state, which is the normal state for goods price inflation in the United States. They're in deflation. They're they're falling in price, not rising, and then they they surge quite a lot on the heels of the tariffs. So the conventional dynamic would be that this would be a one-time effect. The tariffs would come in, it would raise the costs, it would push inflation up for the moment, but then it would roll through. It would peak and that effect would dissipate. And you start to see that a little bit in the in the chart where the goods price inflation seems to have peaked and now is coming down. It's one month of data, but one quarter of data, but that seems to be the the way that that dynamic is going. So then we have a second shock that comes just a year later and that's the oil price shock and this shock is follows things that we would expect if we if you've studied this for a period of time what happens to inflation when oil prices rise and you see it here the war begins crude oil prices rise rapidly skyrocket I think many people said sharply rise and then when the war when there's anou or a peace agreement or you know any sense that the Strait of Hormuz will open then oil prices come down and the material part of this slide is to look to the right and see that as those oil prices move so does energy price inflation. So we got a print in in June and you could see it clearly that when energy prices started to go down because oil prices settled gasoline prices in particular fell then so did energy price inflation in the United States. So it's it's almost a one for one if you were just running a simple correlation and that's good news if you're thinking about shocks because it says if the war ends and you know here we today we have some positive news but you know I'm going to abstract from what central banks can't control for a moment which is the duration of the war but it from a inflation dynamic perspective it does seem this is still working where oil prices fall and so does inflation energy price inflation. So then the third shock is the AI investment shock and I'm going to bring it break it down into two components which I alluded to at the beginning. The first component is investment in data centers and this has been going on for some time. This isn't a new thing there. It's it's reaching very large proportions but it's not new and you can see that from the relatively straight growth line that go that is is portrayed on this chart. So very very steady growth over a long period. Lot of enthusiasm about AI, a lot of building of data centers to facilitate that that enthusiasm. The real news if you will right now is technology related spending and price inflation. So we've seen a surge, a pickup in investment goods for techn technology goods and software products and that is pushing up inflation in those sectors. If you look at technology equipment PCE inflation, it's rising sharply this year and is contributing an outsized share to overall inflation, an outsized share from its own share in in goods and services. So that is a dynamic where I can't show you the positive picture of its peak jet and it's coming down. This is just something that's continuing to go up and it remains an open question whether this is a relative demand shock and just changes the relative price of technology equipment which has been falling in price over time not rising or if it's something broader than that because it's competing for resources in a way that spills over into overall inflation. So this is where I want to bring in the economics of it. You know, you look at the shocks, you look at the data, and then you ask the question, how do economists, how do policy makers think about this? Well, I'm going to put up this uh simple slide of conventional wisdom. So the conventional wisdom is that you first want to understand supply or demand, but mostly you want to understand persistent or temporary. And if the shock is temporary, the right appropriate monetary policy is to look through it. The reason being the simple one that monetary policy acts with a lag 12 to 18 months. Just take that as a benchmark. And by the time you've raised the rate and that's worked its way through, you haven't affected the shock dynamic, but you've definitely affected the economy and unnecessarily so. So you're you're not really being effective in your tool. So you look through the the shock. If it's of course more persistent and you can understand that well then you do want to offset that because that can affect underlying inflation in a broader way or a more persistent way and your tool would then have some ability to curb that. So this is what I would call the simple conventional wisdom. If you follow the um FOMC, you know, conversations at all, the there has been this look through strategy that we'll look through tariffs and we look through oil prices and the II remains an open question because it's very early days in terms of how that's affecting broader inflation. So the other dynamic I want to bring up because it's at the top of my mind and I think others minds as well is what if the conventional wisdom isn't as relevant as it normally is at this time and why might that be? Well, this is a picture from the San Francisco Fed forecast where we've plot out the impacts of blue for tariffs, green for uh energy, and then yellow for AI and where the impacts are coming into inflation and then what our forecast dynamic is for those as they roll through as those individual shocks roll through. And you'll notice immediately that they're overlapping that their impacts are overlapping. So before the tariff shock is fully through the economy, the oil shock comes and puts additional pressure on inflation, headline inflation. And then before that's fully dissipated, the AI shock comes and puts additional pressure on overall inflation. And the question is, are these three shocks they're having this this uh overlapping effect, but are they going to have a compounding effect? is the fact that they're overlapping and overlapping at a point in time where inflation's already elevated. Will that serve to compound the effects interact those effects and make this either broader or more persistent and that the they would have a impact that's greater than the sum of its parts. So the whole impact together would be greater than the sum of its parts. So that's the question and if you take that question seriously

>> then you have two scenarios two scenarios that we as policy makers face. One scenario is the economyy's following the the uh conventional dynamics. The shocks work as we have often seen them work and we have short-lived inflation. It has definitely pushed out the timeline for returning to 2%, but it's not really impacting underlying inflation in a way that has a dynamic of its own. If that's the case, then inflation temporarily rises and then dissipates as the shocks subside. But the current mildly restrictive policy that's in place in the US is sufficient to gradually return inflation to the 2% target. It would just push it out a little bit, but it would still have the impact. The more worrisome scenario, the one that would change how we would think of things, how I would think of things is if these overlapping shocks actually have this compounding effect I spoke about. And the effects on inflation are amplified because they've happened at the same time and they're occurring at a point in time when inflation's been above target for over five years. That would suggest that inflation has somehow broadened and it's become more persistent and it's affected the underlying inflation rate in a way that doesn't trace back to the direct effect of the shocks on sectors that are experiencing them. In that case, policy must be recalibrated and not a little bit but a but probably more substantially. Right? This is not something that in my judgment and this is my judgment by the way, not that it doesn't reflect the FOMC's views. I should have said that at the beginning, but in my judgment, it would be insufficient to then just do small calibrations, almost surgical calibrations on policy because you'd have an underlying dynamic that you needed to treat. And so those two scenarios are very different.

>> So let me make a case for scenario one. And let me start by saying many expect scenario one, the more you know benign or positive scenario to actually play out that the conventional dynamics hold. So this is two charts. One from policy makers at the FOMC. This is the median inflation forecast for the June SEP. And I recognize it's slightly dated, but the dynamic has been something that held in December and other times. it just you just push out the time period, but the dynamic stays the same. So this is inflation peaks at the peak of the shocks and then it comes down over time and you've pushed the time it takes to get back to 2% out, but you haven't changed the overall dynamic that current policy rates are sufficiently restrictive to bring inflation down to 2%. We have to wait out the shocks which we can't really affect. The more recent survey comes not from policy makers but from the blue chip forecast which is chief economists in in businesses, private businesses. And you see there that they're forecasting the same dynamic that inflation comes up as the shocks, you know, rise and then fall and then it comes back down and it reaches our 2% target, our 2% goal sometime in 2028. And those two dynamics are reflected in a broader sense of forecasters that you could look at. Some may not think this, but but the lion share of of of forecasters think this dynamic is going to hold. This conventional dynamic will play out.

>> As I said, there there are some good reasons to think that's true. And let me give you a few.

>> The first one is that businesses in the United States have very limited pricing power. They just don't have the ability to pass fully the cost that they're facing on to consumers. And we see this in surveys of businesses. Uh there's these are two examples of surveys. One done by my colleagues at the New York Fed and the other done by my colleagues at the Richmond Fed. And the New York Fed surveys of the service firms, service providers and the Richmond Fed is on manufacturers. And what you see is in both of the cases the green line which is the one that says are you expecting higher costs is higher than the blue line which is are you expecting higher selling prices. So there's a gap between what they expect to pay for their inputs and what they expect to pass on to consumers in terms of selling prices. Now, one piece of information that we've received is that there is a difference between businesses that sell to businesses and businesses that sell to consumers. And you you somewhat see this in the services manufacturing chart. If you're selling an input to another business, you're trying to figure out a little bit how to pass some of that along. Maybe not the full thing, but you're splitting those costs. At least if you're passing it, if you're trying to pass it on to consumers, you're finding consumers trading down, moving on, uh, leaving you in a way that most businesses don't want. And the consequence of that is there's just less pass through from businesses, from firms to consumers. So that's going to have a bridling effect on inflation in a way that doesn't amplify the shocks or compound their effects. Another reason I think that you could argue that the shocks the conventional shock dynamics will persist is that households almost entirely are focused on energy when they think about inflation expectations. So this is a this plots inflation expectations from the New York Fed. They do a survey. It's inflation expectations from that survey and average gas prices. And the the main point of comparison I want to draw your attention to is that during the post-pandemic inflation runup the blue line which is inflation expectations was far above the green line which was energy prices. You can see the increase and then it rises but there was a gap and that gap largely reflected how consumers felt about broader inflation. the inflation that was other places in the economy, not just energy. And that was consistent with the larger problem we had of tenacious inflation that just wasn't going to come down without aggressive policy action.

>> In the current period, you see that, you know, average gas prices are actually higher in in terms of they've gone up more than not higher, gone up more than inflation expectations. So inflation expectations do rise when gasoline prices go up, but they're not going up uh extra. They're not going up additionally. And you can do additional correlations and things and find that right now gasoline prices are driving the lion's share the most the majority of the change in inflation expectations in these surveys of consumers. So that's uh that's a positive piece of news. If you think, well, the dynamic will be the war ends, oil prices come down and and consumers just shake it off and move on and now they're back to inflation expectations in the shorter run, which are consistent with our 2% goal.

>> Third dynamic that is important as we're thinking about the outlook for inflation is the labor market. And right now, we just don't see much pressure, cost push pressure from the labor market in terms of price inflation. And you can see this in the the wage the labor compensation per hour itself or other wage measures you can find the same. They're just not going up very much. They're not growing beyond 2% inflation and productivity. And in fact, if you plot productivity growth, you start to see a gap emerge between the productivity that's being measured in the economy and the pay that workers are receiving. just suggesting that firms are are able to handle some of the cost pressure through gains in productivity as opposed to changes in the labor market dynamic or raising prices for consumers. We we hear a lot of this when we talk to CEOs across the country, my colleagues and myself, and they really are working to change the cost profile of their firm. Some of that is being enabled by AI, but some of it's just being enabled by just another look at business processes, trying to do uh more with fewer workers, trying to think about whether you really need to expand those thought you have as much as you thought to meet the output demands that you face. Just trying to gain productivity even if it's not a long run productivity trend. trying to gain productivity growth in this period or increases in productivity just to help maintain some of the margins that because of the rise in input costs. Finally, in terms of the the case for a positive outlook on inflation, the the one that follows conventional wisdom is that inflation expectations in the United States remain remarkably stable. These are uh surveys of markets prof it's actually market expectations from uh pricing professional forecasters longer run inflation expectations and then on the right hand side consumer expectations and what you see in the longer uh durations or longer frequency is that inflation expectations are remarkably well anchored and so if you were worried that the Federal Reserve has lost the anchor on inflation and so you need to make some additional actions to get the anchor back to pull it back to 2%. You just don't see evidence for that here. And I think of that as not something to be complacent about or to rest on, but to be reassured by in terms of the urgency of the decision making uh that we have to that's before us.

>> Okay.

>> So, what about scenario two? And I I increasingly, you know, if you ask me, I think scenario one is still my modal, but if you do the percentages of the modal versus the the scenario 2, I think they're much closer together than they used to be. And so I it's really important that we not just push scenario two off as a risk that goes in alternative scenario thinking, but that it becomes something we really consider and look for in the policy deliberations and our assessments of the economy. So why might scenario 2 emerge? What would be the dynamic that would cause this to move from the conventional wisdom that I just made a case for and something much more challenging which is a drift in underlying inflation that doesn't directly tie back to any particular shock?

>> Well, I think there's two things and I've I've mentioned them a couple of times, but I wanted to show you some pictures here. Is that headline inflation has been above our target since 2021. And if you just think how much above our target, 3.9% is the average inflation rate between 2021 and 2026. Now that is a combination of the runup that went all the way to seven during post pandemic and the more modest runup that's come from the three shocks. But still for the average household or the average business, they may not think in shock dynamics. They might think in the terms of egg prices, chicken prices, uh travel prices, etc. and see well price levels already high I don't like that and now on top of it I've got inflation rising at a rate that doesn't give me much hope that this is going to be remedied anytime soon so that's something you might that I think is worth thinking about and a forthcoming AER paper actually puts a little finer point on the concern that it the paper the author argues that consumers attention to inflation the attention they pay to it impacts inflation itself and you can think of a variety of ways that could happen, inflation expectations, etc. But if you've got their awareness, if they're no longer rationally inattentive to inflation, if they really care, then they're going to be focused on inflation and that might affect their expectations of price inflation overall, might affect their wage demands, might affect their general sensibility. So that's pressure you don't really want to see. And this author actually estimates that the threshold where people's attention focuses leisure focuses on inflation is 4%. And we're very close to 4%. We are 3.9 on average and 3.7 of late. So that certainly uh gets should get attention that that dynamic could emerge.

>> The second reason to be worried about scenario two and thoughtful about it and worried about it maybe is the overstatement. thoughtful enough to move it to the front of your desk. When I talk to CEOs, they always say, "I've got things on the side of my desk, things in the file cabinet, and things on the middle of my desk." And so, I would say both of these scenarios are on the middle of the desk, right? Scenario one and scenario two getting equal attention to what could possibly happen. So, let me talk about firms and um and consumer prices, producer prices and consumer prices. As I showed in the surveys, but now you see it in the measured data on inflation, producer prices are just outpacing consumer prices. You can see that in growth terms, uh, in inflation for the PPI in June is 5.5 and consumer price index grows by 3.5. It's different than the CPE, but it's still about the same. So, and if you index these to 21, you can see that the cumulative change still leaves firms behind. It's not like they had much room. So why is this a challenge? In my in my judgment, it's a challenge because at some point firms want to uh maintain their margins. They don't want to take it out of their profits. They don't want to continue to they may run out of opportunities to gain productivity growth until they find ways to make AI extremely useful. And so they just don't they would love to be able to pass these things along. And the dynamic we focus on and ask about a lot is if the firm across the street from me is heavily energy dependent and raising prices and the firm down the street from me is heavily heavily affected by tariffs and raising prices. I might just get into the ethos of everybody else is raising prices. Why don't I try to? That hasn't happened yet to to our ability to discern it. But I think it's not a risk we can just push aside and say because we haven't seen it, it isn't there. We really have to focus on digging deep to see how it might emerge.

>> So let me conclude with what this means for policy and risk management. And I I I think this is relevant not just to the United States but all central banks are dealing with how do you manage these shock dynamics and the impact on inflation and the US is just right in the center of this at this point. So I see the FOMC as facing bimodal risk. The bimodal risks I talked about, we have conventional dynamics gives us some version of scenario one. In that scenario, you might fine-tune the policy level, but you're not you don't really need a a large change to deliver on the price stability goal over time um as forecast by 2028.

>> Scenario two though is one where the inflation gets momentum in and of itself. all the things that have happened, above target inflation for over 5 years, a series of shocks that push the inflation rate even higher and we just keep pushing it out. That finds a way to gain momentum to broaden through the economy to become more persistent. And then we need more aggressive policy recalibration to get this back down to a trajectory we have confidence in that can deliver on 2% inflation. I understand.

>> You might ask if you're following what the FOMC does or what the Federal Reserve does. Well, if you've got this scenario too, what happened in July? Why didn't you make a move? Why didn't you you think about this? I know this is a little outside of uh perhaps interest in Japan, but maybe not. Maybe there's some interest here, especially of late. And you know that I will just say that I was completely supportive of the decision to hold rates in July. You know, we have another meeting coming up in September, which is now just 7 weeks away. And importantly, we have a lot of information we need to collect if we're deciding between scenario one and scenario two. If it was just fine-tuning that we I thought we were up against, that would be a different problem. This is a problem where you've got, you know, one type of thing that gives you the patience or the ability to hold on and hold for longer and you have another one that says we're out of position and we need to adjust in order to make sure that this doesn't develop a a dynamic that's harder to control down the down the line. And so collecting more information is valuable. We in the United States will get a couple of inflation uh releases that you know from the published data. We'll get some additional information on the labor market. We'll see we'll get more information about whether the trade the positive trade thing uh numbers I showed you where goods inflation was turning down if that continues to hold and importantly whether the war is really in a a place where it's it's uh stable and prices are going to come down for oil and other other energy goods or if it's going to pick back up again. And that's another challenge for households and businesses. And then finally, we'll be able to spend a lot of time talking to CEOs about the AI effect. And here I want to emphasize that that look can't be simply what does the AI what do the AI firms think they're creating but in fact what do the other businesses feel like they're not getting or they're paying them more for because the AI investment boom is taking resources that they would otherwise have access creating a a scarcity problem that we haven't seen yet to uh to my knowledge in the in the western United States or what I'm able to gather from my colleagues but it is something we need to watch. So, I'll conclude by saying these are challenging times. There's a considerable uncertainty and risks that don't don't seem near neighbors. They're they're sort of far apart in the distribution. It might require different policy actions. And the answer there is be vigilant to watch the information as it comes in, but be very prepared to take the action if uh the second scenario in particular emerges. Thank you, and I look forward to the conversation. Thank you very much. Um let me exercise my prerogative as chair to start the questioning myself. Um when you were talking about uh the two different scenarios, the more optimistic and more pessimistic scenario. One of the things you emphasized on the positive side was that inflation expectations uh still appear to remain relatively anchored. Um and I just an observation that is uh all the more remarkable given that the inflation rate has been above target now for for several years and and one can attribute it to different factors but simply looking at the the end product uh it's been a long time since we've had an inflation rate of 2%. um you suggested that the we might might be sanguine about the uh expectations given that they do appear to be anchored. On the other hand, we know from many many decades ago that uh when inflation expectations are not anchored, it can be quite costly to the economy to to uh to try to introduce an anchor to them. Um so I guess I I this is really a question about timing. Um that is it. Can can we afford to um wait until expectations show signs of not being anchored uh to to uh view that as a risk or is uh is this something that would be a factor even even given uh the the data so far? It's something that would be a the fear of losing the anchor uh be a major consideration in regarding whether to increase the federal funds rate in the near future. Uh,

>> so let me answer the I think one of the most important questions first, which is is the anchor itself being at 2% enough comfort to wait until it moves? Absolutely not. By the time the anchor drifts, it's really hard to get it back. And you know, you think about the decade that preceded the pandemic, uh, FOMC spent a tremendous amount of time trying to get inflation up to 2% because we were worried the anchor was going to fall to the other side. I think that same vig vigor has to be applied when we think it could go up the other way. The reason I showed it was just to say we don't have a current alarm bell sounding off in the longer run inflation expectations. But I think those other measures that I looked at, you know, what what happens to expectations in the shorter durations for businesses, market expectations, importantly, what happens to firms if firms start to begin to tell us that they either have to pay more to their workers because of the burden of inflation or even in a a stable or or evenly balanced labor market or they they're just they're just margins are compressed so much they're going to try to pass price um input cost along. Well, then I think we have to guard against a drift. You know, I I think of it as the anchor check is something you must do to make sure you don't have a problem of drift that you just aren't paying attention to. But it provides little comfort in terms of how one does the work because Congress didn't say keep inflation expectations well anchored for the United States. It said keep price stability in place. And so it's really price stability that's the goal. And if we see a movement off price stability that this is why I thought the conventional dynamics of shocks versus compounding shocks is is more relevant because it really asked the question what's the nature of our outlook and how much does it depend on taking the textbook case on shocks and just applying it to the current world and is that really a reasonable explanation right now for how the world might go. So I tend to lean a little more on let's be thoughtful about this but why wait? Why wait is because we'll get more information about what's happening with the tariff shock. We'll get more information about the war and we might have a very different situation if both of those look like they're subsiding and then our last journey is to figure out what's happening on the AI shock. That could look very different than if the war continues, the tariffs. It was a it was a it was a little bit of a a good news that dissipates and goes away and then we find ourselves at a position where we've got three shocks, elevated inflations and small comfort that longer run inflation expectations remain well anchored. I mean, you know, I'll tell you, I'll finish with this. The um the longer inflation expectations remain well anchored through big shocks in inflation, the less comfortable they are in a way for evidence. And I think this is part of what you were saying and you know we could say the Fed was really good at talking about how much we're going to do it that the aggressive actions helped anchor them. I think that's both true but it's small comfort if you're thinking about why you um how you can how long you can tolerate above target inflation.

>> Thank you. Um let me follow up a little bit. Um you you said that um you were comfortable with the most recent FOMC decision not to uh not to change interest rates. Um uh and but on the other hand you would be looking at a variety of uh incoming data to decide uh you know in the future what the appropriate policy is. markets are pricing in uh an increase in interest rates uh before the end of the year. Uh which suggests that uh market expectations are that at least some of that information that's going to be uh become available is going to be sufficiently negative to uh cause an interest uh an increase in interest rates to be uh appropriate from the point of view of the majority of the FOMC. uh is are there particular um outcomes that you see as most likely to trigger an increase in interest rates among the different data series that you talked about. So if I take the shocks that I went went through and I look at let's start with tariffs if that if that data that looked positive in the June uh release goes back up um for a variety of reasons either the new tariff announcements the extension of the tariff rates the those things push it back up or it was just a blip in the data it was just an anomaly and it's going to move forward then then I think that would be one not great sign that this was happening that this was something. The second one would be so an uncomfortable sign. That would be a sign that maybe the tariff shock isn't rolling through at the in the time frame we had forecast or projected. The second would be if the war simply continues its volatile path and we find that oil prices average something closer to 90 than closer to 80. And that would I think start to chip away at people's confidence that this was going to end in a in a short order and that oil prices would come back down. So that's the second thing. The other thing is, you know, we haven't seen it yet, but we'll we'll start to get more and more information about is AI is the AI shock to technology goods and software. Is it really going to stay narrowly focused on this the areas that it's affecting and that way it's a relative demand chock or is it going to you know spread more widely? So how could it spread more widely? The people who are manufacturing other things less expensive semiconductors things for cars etc suddenly get pushed out or they have to pay too too high prices and they they pay more. Or you could think of this as you know workers who are building uh homes get priced out because of data centers and wages go up in those sectors. We just haven't seen broadb based cases of that. But if that should happen and you start seeing consumer goods go up outside of ones most directly affected by AI investment growth then I think and you will get prints on these things. we'll start to be more concerned and at this point you know the the the modal and the risk alternative scenario two are close enough in probability for me that you know I think ultimately uh focusing on if we should get those three shocks looking like they're not dissipating as we thought or that the AI shock is is a broader demand shock not just a AI demand shock then I think we would have to lean against that and consider this a potential for spillover into underlying inflation. And I worry a a lot about this um in terms of my thinking is that you know consumers and businesses have gone through one large increase in inflation and it came back down. But if they go through another one where broader inflation picks up, I think that's more every time you have that it's more challenging to the long run anchor in my judgment. And so you'd want to lean on on treating that. But as I said a minute ago, I don't know that 25, you know, small adjustments, a gradual approach to this. If you think of gradualism, I I read this Ben I saw this Ben Bernanki speech in 2003 and it was about gradualism in cold turkey. And gradualism you do when you you really don't know. Last year we did a gradualism approach. We weren't sure the labor market was softening. We gave 25 basis points, looked around another 25, ultimately did 75. But it was very much a do something look around. If we find that the scenarios are scenario two is taking hold then I think the question would be why do it incrementally? Why not take the approach that uh Ben Bernanki called at that point the cold turkey approach where you just do it more actively in an effort to get the policy adjustment in as quickly as you can. So I that's a long answer but I hope that's a complete answer. that is um let let me ask one more question before opening it to the floor and I'll while I'm doing this I'll invite members of uh of the conference pe attendants of the conference to think about questions I might want to ask um let me step back a little bit from the immediate questions of monetary policy and ask you about the relationship between monetary and fiscal policy um you're uh uh an uh involved in monetary policy in the US we're sitting here in Tokyo and one of The thing there are many differences between the US and Japanese economies but one of the things that the two countries share is uh a problematic fiscal policy.

>> Um in in both countries uh the trajectory of national debt is quite worrisome. Um the factors are different in the countries but many of them are are are common. Um and and and one of the factors is a a seeming inability of of the government to uh put fiscal policy on a sustainable path. When people think about risks to uh uh price stability, one of the things they uh can be concerned about is the possibility of uh so-called fiscal dominance occurring where um the monetary authority implicitly loses control of monetary policy because of the pressures imposed by uh a fiscal policy that is uh on a dangerous trajectory. Um what uh actions do you see uh as uh that might be taken by the Fed or are being taken by the Fed that are uh preventative uh in that regard? That is what is the Fed doing? What should the Fed be doing? And I guess this would apply to the Bank of Japan as well uh to avoid uh the the scenario of fiscal dominance.

>> Excellent question. At these times, I think people have asked those questions a lot and it's no longer just an academic question. I, you know, the public's asking this as well. So, I I think that the well, I know that the first line of of that defense, if you will, between the idea of fiscal dominance is to maintain the independent decision making of the central bank. So in the Federal Reserve, our primary tool in uh setting policy is the interest rate and setting that interest rate where we think it's appropriate to achieve the goals that Congress gave us, price, stability, and full employment is the is the is the best way. Do your job well and the independence holds and don't be influenced. And you know, we've had 113 years of the Federal Reserve at this point. And many times there's been some pressure by the fiscal agent, you know, the fiscal uh side of the house to to do things that might end in a better picture for them, but not such a good picture for the country over time. And that's why Congress, I think, ring fenced the Fed and said, "Make independent policy decisions and do your job with these goals in mind." So that's my first answer is independence is based on acting independently and preserving that independence and acting independently I think is the first and foremost piece. So you if you're a a citizen in the United States, you're a person out there, you should be able to see the policy changes reflecting the goals and the deviations of the data and the outcomes from the goals we have and bringing those together. The second thing that has been much more on the mind lately because we've had you know so almost 20 years of of experience now. Yes. 20 years of experience is the balance sheet. So the balance sheet and you know Alan you've written about this extensively been talking about this as others have but you know think about the balance sheet as something that gets a lot of attention when these issues come up. And I think it's a right attention to put on this and something that uh chairman wars has made a task force to think about but the FOMC regularly talks about these things and has discussions at both research conferences and in policy uh venues. The the thing with the balance sheet is that I think is important to ask is to what extent does it blur the lines either in real terms, practical terms or in op optics or reputational terms and and how do you think about that? And that naturally leads you to ask is the balance sheet as important of a tool in normal times as we use it in crisis times when we're in a ZLB. We're at the zero lower bound. we have a crisis whether it's a pandemic or the financial crisis and we really have to throw things at it. You might be willing to pay the cost of a larger balance sheet then but are those things you should pay as you go forward and and how big should the balance sheet be and how and what what should be the maturity. So let me give you a couple of things that that you know we've talked about in the past and that policy makers you know can and are thinking about and should think about in my judgment. One is what's the right maturity? The Federal Reserve has has said, the FOMC has said we want to bring the maturity to match the uh outstanding Treasury debt. And so that would be less distortionary, shorten the duration. You're not you're not putting pressure on long rates in a way that creates uh that that chance of of fiscal dominance perceptions if not fiscal dominance reality. And the other thing that people have talked about is shrink the size of the balance sheet. We run ample and get really have historically become very worried about going to the kink and finding ourselves not in ample and then uh rates spike or we lose control of the Fed funds rate. But you know how small can it be? How really what is the ample? Ample's you know little bit like the neutral rate of interest. Um it's just hard to measure and so figuring out what that is and what things might affect this the size of the balance sheet. And then the final thing that's been coming up with outside the Fed speakers or comment researchers really is what if the Fed has a large balance sheet but it's all in bills. It's very short duration and you you can do ample a variety of ways. I think of ample reserves as the way we run monetary policy. We've decided on that's the the regime. But how you technically implement ample, you know, the ECB uses an ample ondemand system. We use a supplied ample system. You can you can think of a variety of ways to do this and shortening the duration shrinking the size to be ample just as opposed to ample plus. You know the size of the buffer over ample matters. And I think all of these things to answer the question should be front and center of the discussions right now because the this is something the globe is thinking about. Central banks have used balance sheet policies since many have since the financial crisis and really thinking hard about what that means in a world where there are uh fiscal issues not just in the US and Japan but in other places as well coming out of both the overhang from the financial crisis but then co thank you um I have questions from the floor um please uh turn on your mic Identify yourself.

>> Yes. Uh my name is Iwata uh the Japan Center for Economic Research. Thank you very much for your nice presentation. I want to ask on the financial stability. You focused on the price stability issue, but I'm concerned that this AI revolution may be accompanied by the financial instability. One example is the private credit market. You know this is now increasing very much $3 trillion. In addition, AI funds massive investment financing by using this private credit market and uh there is a use of circular finance among big AI companies you know each other financing and that I'm afraid there could be a bubble uh similar to the 2000 and so uh a a uh how do you take into account in the monetary policy you know uh management uh to what extent do take into account this financial instability. Another is very recent concerted intervention policy between United States and Japan. There is a use of on the Japanese finance minister ministry used the account the tima uh repo facility in in order to avoid directly selling US bond to the market and just borrow money from federal reserve and do you uh the uh treasury secretly uh a sentent argu uh Asian financial market stability is needed. uh to uh to implement this intervention that this could have maybe widespread use of this uh uh repo facility. Do you do you find any reform needed or not?

>> Okay. So let me start with that question because it's the easier to answer in the sense that I can't answer it um because I'm not I'm not in that decision space. So let me tell you uh what is what is happening. Secretary Bessant has been very open and transparent about the reasons why and that's where I would go for that information. I can't add anything to the conversation beyond what he has said. And I will just say that the Federal Reserve is simply the fiscal agent of the Treasury. We have no decision here. We simply implement what the Treasury asks us to as their fiscal agent. So that's where I'll stop there and and I'll I'll say that's you know important questions but not questions that I can uh address on the AI question. I think about this a lot and have been for the last couple of years and the reason is because we see this tremendous growth in data center financing and now in other activities and and so then what do you have to do to better understand whether we're if you just looked at the growth rate and the amount you would definitely get uh you'd say okay this is this is very nervous making I guess or very worrisome. So what things are going on that take down or mitigate some of that concern? Doesn't take our eye off of it, but does mitigate it. And to what extent are they continuing? So the first thing that that I look at is that, you know, for many of these data center projects, no ground has been turned, no ground has been broken. They're in development plans and you've raised the money for them, but they haven't broken ground to build them and they're in a queue to be built over a longer period. So in that sense if people lose interest or you know other models uh small language models become more popular can be done with less less energy less data processing in on your laptop. Well then you would have the ability to just not build those. Now that doesn't mean people wouldn't lose money but they would not we wouldn't have a lot of stranded assets which would amplify the financial crisis. you know, the financial crisis was was financial, but it also left a lot of stranded homes and people out of position and and and and that is a harder shock to get over. The second thing that is important is that for until recently now you've seen little parts of this but until recently the bulk of the financing that was going on to put these data centers forward was out of the cash flows and these large firms that have very um broad business lines and aren't and AI is a small part of it. Now recently with negative cash flows they are using more borrowing from the banking sector from private credit and that does pose a different challenge to really dig into where those interconnectedness uh items are and what does that matter because you know one of the things I took away from the financial crisis and the postmortem that so many people did is

>> you can't just look at the firm itself you have to look at the interconnectedness with other things and that a bank might be interconnected but then they're intercon connected to other parts and it's that that's the propagation mechanism is the interconnection not necessarily you know we I if you remember in the subprime crisis there was a lot of subprimes too small to have this kind of effect but it wasn't that that caused the effect it was the propagation of this interconnectedness in other other sectors other parts of the financial system so I'm think this is a newish newer risk and I think one that that needs consideration and then the the other thing that I think a lot about is how do we look not to will things potentially get repriced, but how do we understand whether it's likely to be an orderly repricing or a disorderly repricing because disorderly sudden repricings is where you get trouble. And the the mechanism for that as many have said before me is investors just suddenly realize that they've invested in something that won't bear a real rate of return for some years and they're impatient and they they they run. Uh the other thing is you know is is there what is the fact what are the factors that make it more orderly. So on the orderly side I'll offer this you know the circular financing has long been something on the radar. We think about it a lot and talk about it in our financial stability discussions, you know, publicly. The the when the markets repriced a little bit last week, now they've regained because they learned that Nvidia, Nvidia rather, and OpenAI had a circular deal. That was that says the markets are trying to get a handle on this and they're not going to be surprised. It's it's not like policy makers are the only people who know this. Markets know it too. So I think you're the question is exactly right. The answer is not immediately known, but I think it's really about putting a dashboard together, not of the things that happened in the financial crisis, but what could go wrong that would tip this over. And it's not I'm I'm more worried I'm less worried. I mean it could happen but a tail risk event a catastrophic event to that marketplace as opposed to the little death by a thousand cuts that unravel the market in a way that retail investors some institutional investors are left without and that you know moves the economy in a different direction than we currently are in. So great question. In monetary policy, we're really thinking about supporting the economy and price stability and full employment. But as you know, we have a financial stability discussion and a financial stability report that we release twice a year. And so we are actively discussing these things, but in the economy, it really is price stability and full employment. We we think about

>> Thank you. I I'm afraid I know there are many more questions, but I'm afraid we've run overtime. Um, and so [snorts] I'd uh just like to end the session and uh hope you'll join me in thanking Mary Dailyaly again for her comments.

>> Thank you. Thank you very much, President D and Professor Abak.