SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FQ9osXWVuco
SPEAKER: Austan Goolsbee (Chicago Fed President)
DATE: 2026-06-25
EVENT: Chicago Council on Global Affairs — Global Economy Dialogue Series (fireside chat, moderated by Brent Neiman, U Chicago Booth), Chicago, IL
NOTE: Auto-generated YouTube transcript (Chicago Fed channel); light jargon cleanup applied in analysis, not in this raw capture.

Good evening. [applause] Good evening and welcome. I'm Heather Russell, executive vice president and chief legal officer of TransUnion. I also have the privilege of serving on the executive committee for the board of directors here at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. So happy to have you all here with us in person and online. You know, it's an especially interesting moment to be talking about the economy. On one hand, inflation has come down significantly from its peak. Unemployment remains relatively low and the economy has continued to grow. And on the other hand, Americans are still feeling the strain of higher prices. Businesses are navigating uncertainty around trade and tariffs. Rapid advances in technology are reshaping industries faster than policymakers can respond. And at the center of many of these conversations is, of course, the Federal Reserve. The Fed's decisions influence everything from borrowing costs and business investment to hiring, consumer spending, and financial markets. But understanding the economy today requires looking beyond interest rates alone. It also means considering how global developments, technological change, and regional economic conditions shape the challenges facing policy makers. Those broader economic forces are reflected in communities across the country, and few places illustrate them better than Chicago. As one of the nation's leading centers of finance, manufacturing, transportation, and innovation, this city offers a unique perspective on how businesses and households are responding to a rapidly changing economic landscape. We are extremely honored to have with us tonight Austin Goulby, the president and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. President Goulsby's leadership and expertise have helped shape both regional and national economic policy and we're looking forward to that continuing under new Fed chair Kevin Worsh who President Goulby recently characterized as a foxhole buddy from his years during the financial crisis. Joining him in conversation is Brent Neman, the Edward Eagle Brown Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, whose work on international economics and public policy makes him an ideal moderator for tonight's discussion. Please join me in welcoming President Goulsby and Professor Neman to the stage. [applause] &gt;&gt; [applause] &gt;&gt; All right. Well, welcome to everyone. Thank you for being here. Um, and thank you to Heather for that uh terrific introduction. My name is Brent Nyman. I'm the Edward Eagle Brown Professor of Economics uh at Chicago Booth at the University of Chicago. and I'm a former exec uh a former emerging leader uh here at the Chicago Council of Global Affairs where I also now sit as a board member and chair our global economy roundt. &gt;&gt; He's emerged. &gt;&gt; I've [snorts] emerged. That's right. [laughter] And uh couldn't be happier uh and and more honored uh than to be on stage tonight with a former colleague of mine, Austin Goulsby, uh who is currently the president and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, which does many things. It conducts economic research. It monitors regional economic conditions. It supervises and regulates banks and bank organizations and provides financial services to banks and the US government. Austin also currently serves on the Federal Open Market Committee, which is the part of the Fed uh that makes interest rate policy that sets interest rates. Now, prior to becoming president of the Chicago Fed, Austin was the Robert P. Gwyn, professor of economics at Chicago Booth, which he joined uh in the faculty in 1995. He served also as a member and then chairman of the council of economic adviserss from 2009 through 2011 and was a member of President Obama's cabinet. So for tonight, we're going to start with a discussion. I'll ask uh Austin some questions. We'll have some back and forth. And after that, we're going to do a Q&amp;A with the audience. All audience questions for tonight's program, whether you're watching remotely uh or whether you're here in the live audience, all questions should be submitted, please um an online interface. And the address for that is ccga. So if you want to submit a question, go to ccga.live. Um and that will then compile and when we get there, um I'll read through some of those questions. Lastly, I just want to remind everyone that today's program is on the record and any views uh by speakers that we host here at the council are their own views and don't necessarily reflect any institutional positions. Uh with that, let's get started and and welcome Austin. &gt;&gt; Brent, my claim to fame is I was right above the stairwell from Brent. You go down the stairwell, three offices in there, that's where he was. We almost wrote a paper together. Remember that? It just didn't work. We we we had the data. We crushed it. It just didn't &gt;&gt; It was close. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it was close. &gt;&gt; There's still time. So, you know, hopefully soon enough. So, &gt;&gt; okay. Thanks for being here, Austin. I want to ask you a bunch of questions about the current state of the world. But before we get there, &gt;&gt; yeah, &gt;&gt; can we kind of zoom out and essentially just sort of set the stage if you could give us a bit of a Fed 101? What's monetary policy? What's fiscal policy? What does the Fed do and not do? And how does that manifest in your life? &gt;&gt; Okay. Um, so monetary policy is the control of one interest rate basically. But the the Fed Federal Reserve system and the Federal Open Market Committee meet every six weeks in Washington. They vote on the Federal Funds rate, but it's basically about shortrun interest rates. And economists think of it as the divine coincidence that the law gives the Fed the job to do two things when setting that interest rate. Maximize employment, stabilize prices, which we have interpreted to mean get inflation to 2%. The divine coincidence is that most of the time when you're trying to if if you're aiming to maximize employment, it's the the times when unemployment is high, inflation is low. And usually in the times when inflation is high, unemployment is low and they're overheating. And it kind of works because the most cyclally sensitive parts of the economy are also the most interest rate sensitive parts. So if it looks like things are overheating and then you raise the interest rate kind of cools it down and you get inflation down. If it looks like you're teetering on the edge of recession, you lower the interest rate, you get more investment, you get more construction, you get more consumer durables purchase. That's what the Fed does on monetary policy. And that's gets most of the public attention. But Brent was right to raise there are other functions of the Fed. One is it's the lender of last resort when everything goes wrong. You the financial institutions can come to the discount window if they have [clears throat] good collateral and get us through a crisis the various crisis. We run a major portion of the payment system, the plumbing that underlies the financial system in the United States. Wire transfers, AC, direct deposit, the majority of that is going over the Fed rails. And then we're kind of a as part of that we're a bank to banks and all the cash in the entire economy is printed by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing but is distributed through the feds and we've got many tens of billions of dollars of cash sitting in the vaults down underneath in the way basement and there's armored trucks coming in every day and we're running it through machines and pulling out the counterfeit and and the whole bed. And then we're major uh parts of of our communities. When they set up the Federal Reserve Act in 1913, they were suspicious as people are today about the federal government controlling the entire monetary system of the United States with no input from the rest of the country. So they built 12 reserve banks from out in the heartland and but at that time we were the west. I I don't know. Um, and so we come there, we're supposed to represent our regions, the seventh district, widely acknowledged the greatest of all the districts, but we're most of Michigan, uh, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Iowa, 90% of of that economy, kind of heart of the Midwest. And we play a a key role in just getting out, talking to people, and and hearing from And actually before uh moving on, are there differences uh between the different Federal Reserve banks uh that we should think about above and beyond just representing different regions? Do you do something different from the president of other &gt;&gt; a little bit? I mean, it's it's an interesting question. So that part of the Midwest, we're the most manufacturing intensive all the districts and by far the most autosmobile manufacturing intensive. So, we'll have some industry expertise for for our regions, but also New York and Chicago because we have a lot of the big um derivatives trading the the designated financial market utilities, DFMUs they call them. There are seven that have been designated as systemically important for the economy. Um, three of them are in Chicago, four of them are in New York. So, so our two banks have big have a big finance uh component that that's that's distinctive. &gt;&gt; Got it. &gt;&gt; In Dallas, they they have a famous energy center because they're the the biggest o oil producer. So there there are some specialties but for the most part as you know most of the economy is basically macro in every state. We are more manufacturing intensive than other districts but it's still the case that most of the jobs in our district are services just like they are everywhere else. And mostly when you see the national unemployment rate that tells you most of what you what you want to know. &gt;&gt; All right. And and actually sticking uh last question on the Fed 101 front. I know better. I know not to ask you questions about fiscal policy, the other kind of policy. &gt;&gt; Yeah, you asked that before. &gt;&gt; But people might ask every other thing. Okay. So the Fed is this part of the universe. But in that part of the universe, it makes a pretty big difference. And we're not the bad guys. We're the guardians of the galaxy of that part of the universe. Everything else in our world is fiscal policy for sure. Taxes and deficits and debt and trade policy and all of the things that are interesting and make life worth living. That's not monetary policy. But that's okay. You know, as as I always joke and you may have heard me say before, our motto in the Midwest is there's no bad weather, there's only bad clothing. and you just tell us what the conditions and we'll pick the correct jacket and fiscal policy in a way is are the conditions with the law says if it affects employment or prices we have to think about it but I try to resist in in in my world before I was ever at the Fed I did a lot of my research on taxes and government policy but I'm out of that business and so they what do you think of the tax bill. That's not our That's not our thing. &gt;&gt; All right. So, we'll make sure to filter those questions out if any come. So, all right. The Fed's got a new chair. So, it was &gt;&gt; has a new chairman. &gt;&gt; Chairman uh was Jerome Powell. Now, it's Kevin Worsh. &gt;&gt; He oversat or oversaw his first FOMC meeting. Uh this recent meeting in June [laughter] where &gt;&gt; he oversat oversat many things. [laughter] Yeah. But this was his first meeting. Yeah, that was &gt;&gt; his first meeting. It was exciting. Uh uh for those of us so so interest rates were held steady and uh the committee about half uh set expectations. They said that uh they thought that over the next year uh there might be rate hikes or the expected rate hikes. But leaving aside the actual interest rate decisions, um, is there anything that you can tell us about how you think the Fed might have a different style or or leadership norms or operate differently under Worsh than was the case under Powell. &gt;&gt; Some of the most obvious. Now, the the rules of the committee are everybody's only supposed to speak for themselves, not speak for the committee, not speak for anyone else. And they're very hush hush and secretive, as you might imagine, of what happens in the meeting. there's a federal blackout period surrounding the meeting and uh the they drop the shade so nobody can see in the windows and it's like the situation room you got to leave all devices outside of there. Um, so I'm not going to tell you what what he said, but I will say it's obvious from the statement. Every time there's a decision comes with a statement and the statement this time was dramatically shorter and did not involve what we call forward guidance. So in the statements before chairman WSH there would be the committee feels that it cannot cut rates until X thing happens that it would kind of make a sort of a semifor um of what's on people's mind. Chairman Worsh has never been a public fan of forward guidance and he scaled the statement way down and that sparse statement that is purged of forward guidance has a bunch of the financial analysts like ah what what does this mean we we're used to having more information I'm sympathetic and was sympathetic before I have always been uneasy with the use of forward guidance on a routine basis in the in the state. I I kind of don't like I think &gt;&gt; and why couple of reasons one the there there are moments when forward guidance no question is useful like when we're hitting the zero lower bound and the rate is already to zero and now what do you do? your your options in monetary policy are quite limited. So when that happened, that's when they started creating forward guidance that [clears throat] maybe we could get all the rates to go down if we start saying we don't think we're even going to contemplate raising the the rates above zero until we see XYZ happen. I described the the purging of the statement a little bit like a caffeine cleanse that even if you like forward guidance, it still makes the forward guidance more effective if you're not drinking three cups a day every day. And that we kind of got into a to an element like that. The other more technical thing that makes may made and makes me uncomfortable with forward guidance is there is a sentiment that goes let's not surprise anybody. The point of forward guidance is let the world understand what the reaction function is so nobody's surprised. Now, the problem with that is then there's a sentiment, well, we can't do anything until if we have the forward guidance, we got to go at least another meeting and take the forward guidance out before we actually do it. And if you get on that, you can just make yourself slowfooted and and and move too late. All of that said, um I do think there's an element of any time the Fed says something that is a prediction, that's a speculation that ends up not being true. And it might not be your fault. It might be something happened. There was a war you couldn't have expected. But I think anytime you hear the Fed officially making a prediction that doesn't turn true, the credibility takes a takes a ding. Um, and that might not be a big ding, but I that that's what I don't that's what I don't like. &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. Thanks. &gt;&gt; So, that's pretty different. Uh, it it feels like under Chairman WH at the least. &gt;&gt; No more forward guidance at least so far. Okay. And you just mentioned there could be a war. So, uh, it's a natural natural transition. So um you know a few weeks ago uh you spoke about uh seeing evidence of the impact of the war on inflation and certainly it's a major part of uh 2 3 weeks ago almost everyone's forecasts on the path of inflation and now uh certainly there's um I'd say a good chance uh that that that fighting and that the situation uh is winding down. Um and I wonder uh if you could tell us a little bit about how developments over the last week or two have changed uh your thinking on on the path of inflation directly the impact from the war. &gt;&gt; You and this audience are far more experts on global affairs than than I am. My understanding was largely rooted in financial markets that they were predicting the price of oil would come down pretty significantly on a rapid basis. If you looked at futures markets then as the war continued they still kept predicting it will fall rapidly. It's just that the base kept inching its way up. So when the thing began they said ah the price will be it might be whatever $90 a barrel now but it will be 70 by September. Then it was well it might be 100 now but it will be 80 by September. Um if we are now getting on the curve where where things might start coming down I think that's great. You would start to see it in headline inflation. We tend to look more at core inflation. We're trying to get the through line, not the variability. So, &gt;&gt; can you cover the difference between headline and &gt;&gt; the difference between headline and core inflation is simply one of them ignores food inflation and energy [clears throat] inflation, which then my mom goes crazy. What do you mean you ignore food inflation and energy inflation? But, but it's true. We mostly do because those ones are up and they're down and there's massive variability and core inflation does give you a little better sense of what the through line is. So we collectively as economists and me personally I didn't over index on headline inflation going up as rapidly as it did because of oil prices. But I was a little concerned that you started to see even ignoring just the direct oil price, it was getting into core inflation in in a variety of ways. And if that continued, that would be a bit of a mess. If we start if the I if if we cease the hostilities, I'm no expert on uh energy production, but my understanding is that even if everything were done today, it's still going to be some time to go fix some of the things that have been blown up and and some of the problems and we still got to resolve some of these what will be the expense what will be the transportation expenses coming through the straight of Hormuz. That said, this could be a nice tailwind for the economy in the short run. In the same way headline inflation soared, headline inflation could come way down. Could, if it were big enough, price impact could even be negative. But I just caution everybody. I caution them on the way up. Hey, don't overreact. And I'm cautioning you on the way down. Don't overreact either. Let's what's the most important thing is trying to get the through line of inflation. And uh we first had tariffs. I felt we've been above the 2% target for a long time, but we were making some pretty substantial progress. Then we hit a tariff shock, which is supposed to be temporary on inflation. one time increase. Yes. But not keep increasing, keep increasing. But before that went away, now we got the oil. It's also supposed to go away. If we see both of those going away, that could be a fun ride uh on the roller coaster. But there's been a kind of a disturbingly high component of services inflation which isn't really from oil prices. It isn't really from tariffs. Why is it high historically that's a pretty persistent type of inflation. So I do think it's worth keeping an eye on that. &gt;&gt; So you you talked about oil price shock going away and tariffs potentially going away. Is that your assessment from the data that it looks like the implications from the 2025 tariffs in fact are going away in terms of the the growth of prices? &gt;&gt; I hope so. Um it's been more persistent that it was slower starting and has proved more persistent than people anticipated when it when it first began. I'm I'm hesitating now. I'm sweating it cuz Brent did all the If I'm like, you know what people thought before, Brent's going to be like, that's not what I thought. I published a paper on that. But I think it's pretty fair to characterize the the the runup of prices was delayed more than we thought. And now it's been more persistent than we thought. And public forecasts have had this feature that inflation was supposed to peak in the fourth quarter of last year. Then it was going to peak in the first quarter of this year. Then it was to peak in the second quarter of this year. And it's just kind of still been floating along up there. But if you look at goods inflation that is the thing that went way up with the tariffs and you have seen a little bit of progress now starting one month is no months it does certainly doesn't make a trend but if we got more months like the CPI we just got which showed goods inflation going back to mild deflation which is what it was precoid um that would be that would be a great sign. &gt;&gt; Got it. All right, we'll move a little bit away then from the international supply shocks and and more toward uh kind of domestic macro. I think we should talk about labor markets. So unemployment rate is pretty low uh by historical standards at 4.3%. &gt;&gt; But there's lots of different ways you can measure unemployment. One thing uh you know the denominator of that 4.3 unemployment rate is the the labor force. And so if people get frustrated looking for jobs, let's say, or for whatever reason leave the labor force, um then it doesn't show up in that unemployment rate. And so there are other measures that um look at things like undermployment and get much higher numbers &gt;&gt; across all these kind of measures would would be interested in hearing what do you look for? What do you what's your preferred way to gauge okay what's going on? &gt;&gt; He you getting a master class just in the questions here. That's exactly how you should think about the labor market. There there is an older style of of analysis that goes let's just find what's the best measure and let's key on that. And historically always the best measure and it's why CNBC we get all juiced up on jobs day is how many jobs were created this month on that. That was the most powerful number. Okay. The only problem is when you get into a period where immigration there big question marks, population growth or big question marks, labor force participation, a bunch of question marks. Those things affect that monthly number in a way that's not observed until much later. And now that doesn't really tell you how much slack there is in the labor market. Like where are you in the business cycle? And I was saying this in I started in the Fed the beginning of 2023 through 2023 and 2024 we were having giant monthly job creation numbers and there were people from this old style who were like with numbers like that inflation is about to come roaring back with the the job market is too tight and I said we don't know that because you a bunch of stuff is happening with population. And I I repeat it again. Now, we went through a period where we were getting a bunch of low monthly numbers. And the the same folks said that means the recession's about to begin. And I cautioned again, don't index on a number where there are a bunch of question marks. Take a portfolio. I find and found that during this period a better indicator of labor market slack was to take I sort of call them the four horsemen of the truth. They are the ratebased measures. The unemployment rate, the vacancy rate, the layoff rate, and the hiring rate. Those are four good ones. They don't agree uh unfortunately, but they are all very stable. The labor market has been remarkably stable for more than a year. The weird thing, and you know, if you have a if you have a college age kid, you know what I'm about to say, the hiring rate is extremely low. Normally, with a hiring rate this low, you're in the depths of a recession. It's it's very hard. And if the hiring rate is low, who's it going to affect? It's going to affect new college graduates because they're a disproportionately high share of of new hires. Okay? But the layoff rate is also extremely low. As low if I just showed you the layoff rate, you'd be like, "Wow, you must be at the peak of a big boom." And it's extremely weird that the layoff rate and the hiring rate would both be really low. That's the high low higher low fire environment. I think that's from business uncertainty that businesses are like we we just don't know what the rules are going to be. So, we're not going to get rid of any of these people, but we're not going to bring on any new people. We're just going to sit and wait. &gt;&gt; You said uncertainty on the rules. &gt;&gt; Yeah. some on rules, some on tariffs, some on there's a lot there just in a lot of spaces a lot of uncertainty. &gt;&gt; If I'm right about that, it feels like these a lot of these uncertainties continue. So, we might see that environment for a while. But I could be wrong. We're try it's not like the economists have this all sorted out. We're we're all debating this question. I do think though that the job market in my mind is stable without being good. &gt;&gt; It's [clears throat] okay. It's not changing. Even the low hiring rate hasn't gone down. It's been flat. The the low layoffs rate hasn't gone up. It's been flat. The unemployment rate basically flat. So, I think the job market is pretty stable. And just to make sure I got it, the idea is if there's a lot of uncertainty, you know, you might sort of wait and see. You just sort of hold off on some new decision. &gt;&gt; Yeah. You don't you don't you don't decide to bring on new people. Now, in different sectors, of course, this isn't true. Then if you're I have a son who's a coder. Look, there are it's there are layoffs in in some sectors, but in the overall economy, I think it's been pretty stable and and characterized like that. &gt;&gt; All right. Then you you you just mentioned that your son's a coder. Um, which certainly uh uh brings us, I think, naturally to to AI. Um, &gt;&gt; and you know, there's a ton of excitement about AI. There's a ton of investment that's pouring into AI. But what I assume and I you tell me, but I assume the most important thing about AI from the perspective of monetary policy and the Fed or one of the most important things is does it increase productivity? Does it actually produce that economic return? And I'd like to hear what you're seeing on that question so far. &gt;&gt; Okay, so the productivity growth rate, economists love productivity growth. We love to talk about it. It's probably the the most the the most talked about and important thing to us that the public if they say what's one number that nobody pays attention to that they shouldn't. This is the number. This is the number you should pay attention to. The prospect that some technology would raise the productivity growth rate is wonderful. That's what made us the richest major economy in the world was productivity growth. It will make us rich again. It will come if it happens extremely rapidly, it will come with dislocations for sure. But overall, our gut tells us fast productivity growth is awesome. There is a sense in which that you you asked you assumed that's the most important thing to the Fed maybe. But remember the Fed, we're about the business cycle. We're about the short run and stabilization. And a lot of this productivity, I'm not saying it is pie in the sky, but is long run in nature. It's like, hey, over the next 20 years, productivity growth is going to change. We've seen in the last two and a half years productivity growth is a fair bit higher 75 basis point(s) one full percentage point higher than kind of the trend was before co I don't know if you can attribute it literally to AI because AI adoption hasn't been fast enough or as pervasive enough to cause it but at the early end of this I gave a speech uh out at Stanford saying it looks like it might be techreated as opposed to a one-time bump up in productivity that came from that came out of COVID like ah we figured out that hybrid work is more productive than non-hybrid work that'd be a one-time increase I I said look the the increase in the growth rate looks like it's correlated with the use of these new technologies If so, big generalurpose technologies take time to diffuse their way through the economy. So, we might have an increase in productivity growth, which in theory would mean lower inflation for a given growth rate. But, and here's the part where I want to caution everybody of what does it mean for the Fed. If you knew it makes a huge difference. Is this productivity growth expected so everybody understands that it's coming and we're going to be rich when it arrives? Or is it landing on us and we didn't expect it? Okay. What's happened so far has landed on us and we didn't expect it. But now this is the most expected increase in productivity growth that of our lifetimes at least maybe ever. And the problem with expected productivity growth is that's a increase in your wealth today. If I tell you you're about in two years from now you're going to get a big pay increase, you want to spread that spending out. And so you start spending now. [clears throat] And if you have IPOs that are worth a trillion dollars and suddenly everybody is rich who works at these companies and goes out and starts buying stuff or data centers have massive investments planning on these high equity valuations, you can easily overheat the economy in the short run before the magic of the productivity has arrived. So I do think it matters a lot to the Fed, not just whether it increases productivity, but whether it's shifting activity into the present and overheating this economy. And you see you're now seeing some articles about that. Um, &gt;&gt; is there like a historical precedent or some example uh that you use to to help you think this through or is it is it really something novel that uh you know doesn't have natural? a loose there's a loose parallel kind of like a cousin but certainly not an identical twin at the end of the 90s where there's a big runup in valuations there's a big increase in use of the internet you see an increase in the productivity growth a lot of people remember Alan Greenspan the Fed chair at the time arguing we don't have to raise interest rates because productivity growth will lower inflation and we can run the economy hotter. That is kind of a parallel. But the parallel goes even farther and I and I hope that people will remember it came in two parts. That was circa 1996 and it hadn't shown up yet in the data. the Alan Greenspan deduced that there must be an increase in productivity growth happening because he said corporate profits are going way up the unemployment rate is falling and there's no inflation. So he said it must be that productivity growth is increasing and we just don't know that yet. And he was right. &gt;&gt; This was the famous conundrum, right? &gt;&gt; That was the famous conundrum. Okay. But by 1999 now the data has proven him right and it's increasing and then the Fed actually starts raising the interest rates very rapidly and significantly on the grounds that wait a minute this is overheating the economy and there are dangers of inflation and there are dangers if if the valuations get too um get too out of control. Um, so that is a bit of a historical parallel and there are many historical parallels to general purpose technologies, electricity and telephones and combustion engines and computers and the internet etc. Um, I would characterize one of the lessons of those is takes a lot longer for that to spread throughout the entire economy than than you would think. Certainly than the than the biggest promoters of AI are are alleged. They're kind of like ah within two years every job is going to be gone and AI will be running everything maybe. But if you look at electricity, if you look at phones, if you look at engines, you look at a bunch of things, it it took took much longer. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay. So, we've only got a few minutes left. Couple quick questions, but one is you uh &gt;&gt; he's being polite. He's like, "You need to be more consistent." &gt;&gt; No, no, no. We got time here, but &gt;&gt; I can do that. &gt;&gt; You said that uh you know, it was a consensus view that uh this district, the the Chicago Fed district was the best district, the greatest district. [laughter] &gt;&gt; I'm not going to argue with that. Uh but it does have quite a lot of heterogeneity. There's uh agriculture, there's manufacturing, there's financial services. What can you tell us about the the current state of affairs of the the district's economy perhaps relative to the rest of the country? Uh look, we as everybody in this room knows, a lot of the Midwest have been dealing with relative population decline. Um sometimes absolute population decline, but at the least growing slower than than in in other parts of the country. And our friend, we have a joint friend Ed Glazer who's who's one of the if not the leading urban economist of cities uh anywhere. and he has this old paper that that says why do some places grow and some places don't and he kind of says three factors are the most important. One if if you look at places that are perennially growing the most. One is what since the invention of air conditioning what's the temperature in January and the sun belt has done better. People like moving to warm places when the the summer is not unbearable because they crank up the air condition. two, what's the skill base of the workforce? And three, how diversified is the industrial base of the of the area? Those three things are very uh correlated in the Midwest. It's certainly not a monolith. You've seen some of the metro areas have done better than others. where you've seen the biggest population declines have been in places where the the education average education level skill base is is relatively lower. Um and places that are more one company one industry towns that they've they've suffered more. Agriculture and manufacturing have also had long run declines in the share of the workforce that are in those because there's productivity growth. And as the price of cars in real terms goes down, you know, if you if you cut the the price of cars in half, each person doesn't buy two cars, they just spend less of their income on cars. Um, so we was we have dealt with that some some too. Mostly the Midwest has behaved as has the macro economy but but we are we are dealing with this population decline. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay. So in the last two minutes and then we'll jump into questions. I just wanted to ask you know kind of very broad-based you've you've now spent three and a half years uh as president of the Chicago Fed through a very turbulent time. So hopefully less turbulence coming coming up. But nonetheless, when you look ahead, can you tell us one of the things that you feel most, you know, kind of uh cautious or or or nervous even about and one of the things that gives you the most confidence about the economy? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Was when I my last stint in government was at the first term of the Obama administration was a financial crisis and everything is going wrong and they come over the fence. I'm like pig pin in the in the peanuts cartoon. You know what? I'm like I'm starting to think maybe it's me. Um, so worries and and and hopes in the hopes it is this productivity growth thing. We've seen it. It's up. The if productivity growth is higher, it means our standard living is going to go up. Our wages can rise faster without generating inflation. And that will be fabulous. We'll have to figure out by the speed at which that takes place. we're gonna have to manage what dislocations. Um, but overall that still makes me quite optimistic and the continued entrepreneurial character of the United States as an economy is worth a ton. There are other If you ever find yourself, oh, woe is us. Go talk to some people in other other economies. they anybody would happily trade places with with us or with you. Um, for that reason, the worrisome stuff, I'll not think of it in the in the grand long-term sense of like are we all doomed, but instead in the Fed's sense, it is that inflation proves substantially more persistent than we are currently forecasting. We just went through that. We just had a period. I wasn't there, so don't blame me. But the Fed made a mistake thinking inflation is just going to go away. Hey, it's just from the supply chain. The supply chain will just fix itself quickly. And it didn't fix quickly. It took a lot longer than than they thought. That is entirely possible. We need to be extremely vigilant about that because I think the very fact that people already got burned once makes them much more prone to declare what's the opposite of declaring victory? Declaring loss to declaring you've lost. this thing is is is screwed up and factoring that into in our language that it would factor into the inflation expectations. If people go down when they're negotiating their wages and they're counting in their head, I think inflation's going to be 7% next year, so I'm going to need 8% wage increase. And the employers are like, oh my goodness, if we got 8% wage increases, we're going to have to raise prices even more. that kind of a spiral if we get on that is really really difficult to get. It's self-fulfilling and it's really difficult to get out of. &gt;&gt; All right. Okay. Uh you you mocked uh how didactic some of my questions were. You should see some of these that were &gt;&gt; I didn't say didactic. I said it was a master class. &gt;&gt; Well, this talk about a glass half empty. Well, I was like giving you a compliment. He's like, "Oh, you're saying I'm boring." Yeah. I &gt;&gt; I just I just want to get you ready. But no, no, no. All right. Well, we'll keep we'll keep some questions. &gt;&gt; We'll keep this one simpler, but the question &gt;&gt; professors, we can filibuster the whole No questions. We got some. &gt;&gt; All right. [snorts] Uh well, the first one I want to ask uh someone asked uh uh I think very helpfully about leverage and how downturns often occur when there's a shock combined with leverage. &gt;&gt; Uh if you could one just kind of explain that for people that don't know and two &gt;&gt; talk about what you're seeing in terms of leverage and private credit. This is a very important point. I wouldn't characterize it that downturns come from shocks plus leverage. Financial crisis and much bigger shocks happen when you have leverage. So if if you look back at subprime mortgages, the losses in subprime mortgages were a certain size. But if you borrow against it, then when that the value of that asset goes down, now everybody's got to get in a fire sale. They're having these margin calls. Hey, where's the money? And that thing can spiral into financial crisis. That's certainly what happened in the Great Depression. There was a big initial shock, but that leverage spiraled into a thing that did not fix itself. the the normal self-correcting mechanisms kind of fall apart. That happened in the 2008 financial crisis. The good news, if you want to think of it that way, is if you're afraid of bubbles, this looks more like a if not purely equity bubble, it's much more equity and less leveraged overall than 1929, than 2008. It looks more like the 1990s bubble in the internet. If you think that's a bubble, which was mostly equity, if something like that goes down, it's it it doesn't make life fun. A lot of people lose a lot of money, but it doesn't turn into a financial crisis. So, I'm hopeful that that's true. At the same time, there there are frothy elements and you're starting to see stories about private credit, stories about debt financing of data centers and we're going to want to watch the amount of leverage on that grounds. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um maybe staying kind of on this thread, there are some questions on other places that might pose financial stability risks plausibly could. things like cryptocurrency and wonder if you could talk a little bit on what the Fed's role is with respect to those kinds of issues, regulation, financial stability. What's your role? &gt;&gt; Okay. The Fed system is a financial regulator. Um the reserve banks don't set the policy. The regulatory policies are set in Washington by the board of governors of the Fed. We employ most of the actual bank supervisors and the people who go down and check to make sure that they're the banks are following the rules. We are the operational wing, but we we we we aren't the determiners of the policy. There's been a rise of fintech and financial firms that are non-banks. That's a long that's been happening for many decades. the rise of money market funds, the rise of a whole bunch of non-bank financial institutions, the 2008 crisis was not exclusively but was heavily concentrated in non-bank financial institutions. So whenever you see rapidly rising non-bank financial institutions where you're not totally familial are they being regulated &gt;&gt; and these include hedge funds insurance. &gt;&gt; Yeah, they might be hedge funds and private credit and and the less the farther away from literal banking it is, the less information we have about it. And so so we don't we don't know. But my my rule I always say the first rule of financial accounting is nobody hides good news. So if you say well I wonder how much inherent problem there is in X business. If they're not out telling you no there's not a problem look at the numbers that that's not a great sign you know because no if you have good news you share it. Um that said, we learned in 2008 the hard way that one of the key lessons is for financial crisis as opposed to just the speculative investors lost their money. What matters is how connected you are to the rest of the financial system. Right now, a lot of these to my mind are not super integrated into the full financial system and the overall level of leverage isn't as high as it has been in some other times. So, that's a that's more comforting on the financial crisis front. &gt;&gt; Okay, great. Uh, a few questions about housing. uh asking about your views on uh you know the the supply of housing or your observation on the affordability of housing and a question can the Fed do anything to fix uh what some have referred to as a housing crisis. &gt;&gt; The rent is too damn high problem. Okay, the Fed doesn't control the mortgage rate. Let me just start with that. I told you from the beginning we're setting a overnight rate that's kind of like between banks. It does matter our rate. Mortgages are 30 years long. Okay? So those are the long rates, not the short rates. What the Fed does in the short term does have an influence, but the market determines what those rates are. And you can have circumstances where the Fed cuts the rate, cuts the short-term rate, and the long rate goes up because people think there's going to be more inflation or or the opposite. That said, the following really striking fact of the last several years, if you talk to any young person, new family, starting new family, whatever, they say, "Geez, my grandpa, you know, he he had one income and it wasn't even that high in income by today's standards. And look at the house that that he bought, you know, that that like my parents grew up in. I can't even afford a condo. What What has happened? If you go plot house price inflation and we want to be a little careful how we define it. It's not the single price of a single family home because part of that is an investment not a price. So we tend to think of it as rental prices. The co the cost of renting home the cost of living in a space has in the last couple of years compared to the price of goods inflation. Housing inflation relative to goods inflation we went through this period coming out of co housing inflation way higher than goods inflation. That's been true for 40 years. Okay, if you take housing inflation minus goods inflation, which is actually mild deflation for most of this period on goods, the cost of housing compared to what you buy at Costco has been relative price changing 4 plus% a year, every single year for 40 years. Okay? Now, it doesn't take two Booth professors to tell you that if you compound a thing 4% a year for 40 years, you're going to have a big number. The Everybody's not wrong. The relative price of housing is massively more expensive than it ever was when your grandpa was buying a house or when even when when your parents or anything, then the question is why? And I don't totally know. Now, I do think the economist first answer to first order is not wrong. You want house prices to go to stop growing this fast. You got to build more houses. And we've went through a period where we did not build houses. Part of that was coming out of the housing bubble popping. There was a widespread spread perception we built too many houses and let's not expand people into housing as much and takes a long time to build houses. So I think we're still a little bit in the shadow of that. Part of it was in co there was a weird change in demand for space. the price of office space went way down because people aren't coming to downtowns and the price of residential housing went way up because basically it was it was just transferring where people were doing the work. So that might have been part of it too. Um last four or five months you've seen some progress on the housing inflation front. hasn't been growing as fast as it did precoid or as it did uh postco but it it's a huge component of the affordability challenge. I think when people say affordability is killing us. I don't think they're just talking about well core inflation's been 3.4% not 2.0%. I think they're kind of looking and saying here are some big tentpole goods, housing, college, education, financial, the health care, the a series of things whose relative price has been rising even faster than overall inflation. &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. We're almost out of time, so we're going to ask one last question. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Uh don't worry, they're not long, but I'm going to actually merge two questions together. All right. So, let me get both out and then I'll turn it to you. Uh but you have a a former student in the audience. In fact, student claims they've taken your class multiple times. I don't know why. [laughter] &gt;&gt; And uh and they say that at the time you were fantastic at explaining Fed policy to students. Uh and they wonder if it's gotten harder or easier to explain Fed policy now that you're actually uh involved in making it. Uh, &gt;&gt; another question &gt;&gt; because I could rail against the idiots and now I' been like, "No, no, you know, it was [laughter] &gt;&gt; and the other question asked you to talk about if your view on how Fed policy works has changed since starting to make it. So, let's test the first by having you uh dig into the second." &gt;&gt; I learned mass as I took the job. Um, I kind of understood decently well the what is the monetary policy part of the job and I will still say going to the first FOMC meeting and all everyone says that is if you're econ that's just about the coolest room in the whole world and it's awesome. It's just as awesome as like you want it to be. There's a giant table, the shades come down, all the phones around, and then they're going to go around the table and it's like, J Pal, what do you think about the economy? Chris, day one is about the economy, day two is about the rates. And I said, no offense to the Senate, this is the greatest, the world's greatest deliberative body. And I didn't realize just from a workforce point of view how missiondriven the organization is. And from the top level, all the presidents and the governors, gez, they take the job extremely seriously. You're in this room. You're out of the elections business. You're out of every business. You've joined the Night's Watch. You know, if you used to watch Game of Thrones, we're down there thinking about maximizing employment and stabilizing prices and it's all about what what it should be. But now go back. We got 1,700 people at Chicago Fed. These people are believers. And that's been pretty amazing. It's changed a little bit my view of the Fed a to see how much operationally it matters running the plumbing of the financial system but also the these are public servants of the of the highest order. So now I feel bad for you know criticizing them as much as I as I did. They do an amazing job. &gt;&gt; Got it. All right. Terrific. Well uh I think we're out of time. Let me say uh it was such a bummer to hear that you were leaving Chicago Booth, but I'm glad you just went down the down the road to be the Chicago Fed president. You were fantastic [clears throat] tonight. We all learned a lot. Thank you so much. I thank you all for [applause]