SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zcAFMHbXGpY
NOTE: Chicago Fed YouTube channel, full OMFIF event incl. moderated Q&A (73 min). YouTube auto-captions; prepared remarks are in the official Chicago Fed file 20260921_OMFIF_Event__Monetary_Policy_in_an_Uncertain_World.txt.

Testing. One, two, three. One, two, Yeah, I can see them shining. So, just a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. Just a bit. I can actually fine I can crank it up a little bit more. So, I still And then we'll just do the uh talk from here. &gt;&gt; So you do your welcome from here and then president your speech to do. &gt;&gt; Oh yeah, that might work. Thank you very much for coming today. Uh this is being livereamed I understand so everybody has to look at the camera and look very smart and present and and handsome particularly our great speaker uh Austin Goulme. I'm very pleased to introduce Austin who is now the president of the Reserve Bank of Chicago and has been in the job now for three years. He's going to be talking to us about the present state of affairs of US policy, monetary policy with a a big emphasis on the supply side. All of this is totally on the record. It is being live streamed as I said earlier. Now Austin has had a very distinguished career also in the academic area. uh and is a professor of economics at Chicago the Booth School of Business. But before that he was working for President Obama. He was the president uh of the council of advisers, the chairman of the council of adviserss for a year or two and even more importantly I would say seminal time when you were working with Paul Vulkar uh when you were the chief of staff and the chief economists at the economic recovery board in the days of 2008. So you really do go back a long time in terms of crisis fighting, crisis management. Lot of that around at the moment. Looking forward very much to what you have to say. You've got a a talk of uh 10 or 12 minutes and then after that'll be some Q&amp;A with me in the chair and then Q&amp;A with the audience whereby we would like the Q&amp;A to be restricted to people who have come from the professional analytic community. There'll be a time for a press conference with it's going to be all done virtually afterwards. So ladies and gentlemen from the press, please hold back during the Q&amp;A. Uh now over to Austin. Thanks for coming to London. &gt;&gt; Thank you David and what a treat to be here. I I you said I' I've been at the Chicago Fed for three and a half years and it reminds me my my mother-in-law her mother-in-law would treated her very badly. And she used to say that if the doctor told her she had two weeks to live, she would choose to go spend it with Grandma Sophie so it would feel like forever. And there is an element uh there is an element to the to to the last three and a half years have been there have been a lot of challenges uh as you know it always brings relief to my colleagues before I say anything. All of my views that I will express are my own. I do not speak for anyone else on the FOMC or for the for the committee today. I wanted us to think a little bit about the nature of supply shocks versus demand shocks. Thank you. Normally when we think about the central banking challenge of economic stabilization in the business cycle, we're thinking about fluctuations in demand. So that at a fundamental level, kind of in modern macro thinking, the Fed or the central bank is responding to the inflationary pressures that are coming from the imbalance between aggregate demand and aggregate supply. When the demand is high relative to supply, that creates inflation pressures that are ones that the the central bank can deal with. And the Fed, as you know, has a dual mandate to stabilize prices and to maximize employment. So it raises rates to try to bring the overheating back back into balance. In the last several years though, we've now lived through a repeated set of supply shocks that have illustrated or to some extent uh highlighted the limits to the line of thinking that that is that is about aggregate demand and kind of forced some new considerations about supply shocks. From the ex coming out of the experience of the 1970s, the oft repeated intuition has been that central banks should largely look through supply shocks directly and only respond if those supply shocks start to have secondary effects on wages, on other industries, or start unanchoring inflation expectations. But in our in our latest episodes, we seem to have entered a period where big supply shocks from wars, from terrorists, from weather, from supply chain disruption, from oil shocks, whatever, they've become a regular and repeated feature. And my argument today is going to be that in an environment like that, there are some supply shocks that the central bank should not just look through. And namely they are the persistent ones that won't go away on their own. Now in a mechanical sense the economy can generate the same size gap between supply and demand from supply going down as from demand going up. So where does the standard wisdom come from that we should not react the same way even if the gap is the same size that we should instead look through the supply shocks and respond only if there are secondary effects. I think that much of that intuition to look through comes from the reality, the historical reality that the shocks to aggregate supply that we've seen over the decades have been much more transitory inflation shocks than than the demand overheating has been. So, the weather events, supply bottlenecks, the the original big oil price shocks, these often resolve relatively quickly. And even when they don't resolve, they don't fully reverse. They're frequently one-time level shifts, not persistent inflation shocks. So, they don't change long run potential growth. And since monetary policy takes months or years to work its way through the economy to begin with, it seems somewhat pointless and probably prone to timing error to try to use monetary policy to respond in the short run to shocks like that. Why bother fighting something that's going to go away on its own? Now, inflation that's coming from demand-driven overheating is totally different. Historically, that's built up slowly but has persisted much longer and hence the idea that monetary policy respond strongly to demand overheating because there are serious dangers of escalation from letting the problems on that side of the ledger fester. My observation is that the supply shocks these days have not just been coming more frequently, but they're also bigger and lasting longer. And with persistent supply shocks to inflation, some of the logic about looking through no longer holds. Okay. Now, that in a way that seems surprising at first glance because if the proper response to a temporary, let's say six-month supply shock is to look through it, then if it's a temporary 60-month supply shock, it seems like it should also be to look through it because as long as it's forecast to go away on its own, 10 time zero is still zero. The problem with that, of course, is that it implies that the central bank is going to fail on its price stability mandate. If the central bank says it will hit 2% inflation in the medium run and also that it will not respond to supply shocks, then repeated persistent supply shocks to the inflation rate mean that one of those two statements is going to end up being wrong. A cost shock that will last multiple years forces the central bank to revisit the rationale for looking through. And these days when you see large supply shocks, I think it's usually more accurate to assume they're going to be persistent than that they're going to quickly go away. That's certainly been the US experience over the last six years. The COVID supply chain disruptions were supposed to heal in a matter of months. When the war began in the Gulf, futures markets projected that oil prices were going to fall rapidly. Months later, we still got oil $100 a barrel. Uh we've still got a large crack spread and they're potentially rising further. And tariffs have been nothing like the stylized textbook example of a one-time increase in the level of prices. They have followed a pattern of repeated escalation. If the forecast is for large persistent recurring shocks, then the central bank still needs to respect its price stability mandate legally. And the only way that it has to reduce inflation rates is to reduce the gap between supply and demand. even if that's not primarily affecting the same sectors where the cost shocks are taking place. So it becomes critically important to figure out or to at least recognize when is a supply shock no longer temporary and should be considered persistent. And that's especially true for big shocks where, as I said, my presumption is the supply shock is going to last longer than than we initially thought. So, what is the central bank supposed to do if the economy is hit by an unending string of supply shocks that drive up the inflation rate persistently and keep it above the target? The first thing is don't do nothing because looking through is not going to work in in that environment. But at the same time, it's important to recognize that the response to a persistent supply shock does not need to be the same as the reaction to a man demand shock even for the identical size imbalance uh between supply and demand. And that's partly from the nature of the tool that the central bank has. Okay, monetary policy works through the demand channel. So in principle, the central bank by raising rates can directly counter the shock to demand that overheats the economy and adds to inflation. It just puts demand and supply back into balance and never has to face the tradeoff between the mandate goals. But for the identical size gap between supply and demand that comes because supply goes down, that puts the central bank in a tougher position because it doesn't put the the Fed can't pump oil as they say and it doesn't control the supply curve. So if inflationary pressure rises from a negative supply shock, the only thing that the central bank can do to close the gap and reduce the inflationary pressure is reducing demand and thereby output and employment. And there the critical fact becomes that wages are sticky. So they don't adjust instantaneously. And to bring the economy back into balance in the business cycle sense after a lasting negative supply shock, the economy would need to adjust to the they would need to get used to disappointment that the new disappointing equilibrium and the wages need to fall. And if wages adjusted instantly, then the central bank's response to the supply shocks and the demand shocks would be the same. But wages don't respond instantly. And trying to force inflation immediately down to the target in the short run would mean overshooting on employment and o overshooting on the decline in employment, undersshooting on output. And so the supply shocks in the short run force this painful tradeoff for the two mandates facing the Fed that the demand shocks don't. And that's why the central bank might not slash should not react as aggressively when the supply shocks are causing the imbalance as when the demand shocks are. Which brings me to the current outlook in the United States that I think we should be paying attention to. Number one, I start especially attuned to elevated inflation in the service sector industries and any evidence that AI data center construction is jumping out of its own lane and driving up aggregate output more than the economy can handle. These would be suggestions of oldfashioned overheated demand. And when demand overheats, there's no ambiguity about how the Fed needs to react. Both of those are areas of concern in the recent data. Uh on the supply side, oil tariffs, commodity prices, etc. forecasters have spent more than a year now pushing back the date when inflation was supposed to peak and start falling. So originally that was supposed to happen in the fourth quarter of 2025 then Q1 2026 then Q2 then Q3 then Q4 and now it's sometime in 2027. that is not a comfortable pattern for for identifying what is supposed to be a temporary inflation shock. Now whether you attribute that to a steady stream of new supply shocks or you think the old supply shocks are just proving more persistent than we originally thought. This has definitely not looked like the oneandone pattern that as I said underpins the case for looking through the supply shock. So I want to see actual evidence that these shocks are fading or I I find it hard to see a credible path back to 2% inflation that would justify continuing to look through them. Our policy response, any central bank's policy response to persistent supply shocks may not be as large, as I said, as if the inflation is coming from demand overheating, but it's unlikely to be painless. And it's exactly the kind of painful tradeoff between employment and inflation that stagflationary shocks always impose on the central bank. Unfortunately, in an environment like that, the only way back is the hard way. So, I remain somewhat optimistic that we don't have to have a persistent uh supply shock, but it's certainly the highest danger we face. [applause] Thank you very much, Austin. That was an incredibly useful speech, I think, to take us through your thinking and also with a bit of history in there on what's happened in the past. I I deduce myself from this idea that the look through question has somehow been replaced now by a followth through question. Uh that seems to me how many times um are we going to have to do this? That's one point I've got in my mind. Uh the second point is that you made the point that um the assumption is that uh you're going to get back to the 2% target. The assumption has also been that you do not look that you do look through supply shocks. That has been the standard assumption. You say &gt;&gt; assumption or a promise? &gt;&gt; Well, it is a thought out there, hasn't it? A thought, a promise. But so the question is to you now, how big a likelihood is it that neither of those promises would be held? you you will indeed refrain from looking through but you will still not manage to meet that target because as you said life is pretty tough out there the the rules forbid me I can't speak for the for the committee um but for myself I would highlight that in the discussion where I said what why supply the response to supply shocks might be different than demand shocks is the recognition that if you if you have a dual mandate, you you would respond, but it won't get you to 2% immediately because you you have to think about you it to get to 2% rapidly would overshoot unemployment and then everyone would say you you you made an error that way. So, so in that sense when you face stagflationary supply shocks I think the likelihood that you that you failed to deliver on both promises in the short run for sure goes up. &gt;&gt; This issue that we mentioned Paul Vulkar who was a mentor something of a hero to you as he was to many people uh uh he did achieve the inflation target uh in the late 1970s. Uh he did cause a lot of pain. people used to send him baseball bats through the post. Um, you've got a president of the United States now who like many presidents does not like high interest rates. How likely is it, do you think, in the course of your tenure, Austin, that you are going to cause real pain and also that the Fed as a whole, not just you, the Fed as a whole will run into really big unpopularity. &gt;&gt; Did was was there a time when we had high popularity that that we're going to lose? I don't when you were lowering interest rates &gt;&gt; in the polling when I started at the Fed, I I checked the polling and a large majority of people in the United States said they were familiar with the Federal Reserve, but they did not know what it does. But an even bigger majority said whatever the Fed was doing, it was doing a bad job at it. And uh so not they not only sent uh Paul Vulker baseball bats, they would send him pieces of 2x4 in construction because construction is one of the most interest rate sensitive of all the industries. So when the Fed funds rate goes to 20%. You're going to hear about it. &gt;&gt; That's what they do in Chicago. And the original piece that he got, his his widow gave me when when he died. And it and it's uh he kept it in his office and now I keep it in mind and it's scribbled on the on the 2x4. It says lower these insane interest rates. Okay, that's and and I keep it there because a what happens at the FOFC is not an academic game. it it affects real people and because the vulker experience shows you sometimes it's the Fed that has to make the toughest call. So what happened is they we had a series of supply shocks pile in the 70s piled on top of overheated demand and inflation expectations became unanchored and that's really painful. the only way back. That's the hard way. Um, it can't the the central bank needs to be independent of political interference. If it's not, it not a guarantee, but it's if you want inflation to come back, that's how you do it. You take away the independence of the the independent thinking at at the Fed or or at the central bank. So I hope we are not in an environment. It's it's entirely conceivable that the environment will make the Fed deeply unpopular. It might already be deeply unpopular. Inflation is not without cost as as we can see that also makes the central bank unpopular for good reason. The the job is price stability. If I I think if we or any other central bank have to confront overheated demand for unanchored inflation expectations, we must have the fortitude to to do that. And if that makes the central bank unpopular, then so be it. I mean, and that and that was that's one of the key lessons of the vulgar era. And if the central bank is not allowed to have that fortitude, you you got a real problem. Inflation will come back and will not go away. &gt;&gt; Good. Just one last question from me following on this issue about independent and then let's open it up to the audience. There's a roving mic so people can just raise their hand and we'll have we've got quite a lot of time for questions because we've got until 12:30 so we can go through this in a in a good way. I think this independence issue, it's obviously been studied a great deal over the ages. Now, Ven Disenberg, he he used to say, and I think this expression probably sounds better in Dutch or in German than it does in English, but he used to say the bundespan is like whipped cream. The more you beat it, the tougher it becomes. I I think it's fairly good phrase really. And it it's it's kind of got an agricultural element to it [laughter] that you that you might enjoy too. Is this the case in the case of the United States Fed that it it has become more independent almost by definition because Chairman Powell is still on there. Uh normally they leave this first time for 75 years he's he's stayed on. One can only assume to make sure that the Fed does keep to its mandate. And also if you are getting beaten up from time to time by various characters in politics does that actually make you more steely more defiant? &gt;&gt; Yeah look you I I think in any country you can't if you if you're going to become a central banker you can't be afraid to take a punch in that business. Um that said I want to just distinguish what when when I'm talking about independence what do I mean is a very narrow form of independence. It is independence from political interference when setting the interest rate. That's the only thing does it's not like a pirate flag or we're gonna declare the republic of something. It's just that and before I was ever at the Fed, uh I was a professor for 30 years at University of Chicago. economists are virtually unanimous on the importance of central bank independence by that narrow definition. Um my experience o on the FOMC is that it's a there are 19 policy makers sitting around the table and they come from very different backgrounds and they have different histories and some from business and some from finance and some economists and some others and everybody in my experience everybody takes the job extremely seriously. You're out of the elections business. You're out of You're in the business of the dual mandate. The law gives the job. It says when you're setting the monetary policy, you're stabilizing the prices, maximizing employment, and that's that's what you need. That's what you we're required to do. And that's the only thing that required to do. doesn't say anything as as I highlight many doesn't say anything about make sure the market isn't upset or it doesn't say anything about make sure the politicians uh get what they want. It's just about stabilizing prices and maximizing employment. And I I think people are that that's what they do. and you you can see in the minutes and you'll see when the transcript comes out word for word, you can see what everyone says. Um and and it it's about it's about the economy and that's what that's what it should be. I'm obviously straying into ground that I shouldn't really trespass on, but I'm very interested in the psychology of monetary policy committees. And so I would just like you to say in just a couple of words, how would you uh phrase just in a couple of adjectives the way that former chair pal behaves on the committee these days? This is rare. It's first time for 75 years. &gt;&gt; I'm not I'm not really allowed. You're you you're you're asking me to do something that that we're forbidden to both talk about other people and and reveal something of &gt;&gt; you could say something quite innocuous like respectful. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay. You know, I I'm I am in in public many times a big fan of uh chair pal. I I think he he was &gt;&gt; former former chair pal and I think his chairmanship um I I thought he had to confront a lot of really difficult issues and he did so uh in in a in a successful and and admirable way. I that was the only chair that I had seen before Chairman Marsh who was a friend and I worked fairly closely with back in the financial crisis when when he was a governor and I was at the council of economic adviserss and I have been a friend and a fan of uh of chairman Walsh ever since. I don't know if it's it is historically unusual to have a former chair sitting at the table, but I I have nothing to compare to to know is is that weird or not weird. &gt;&gt; I'll leave all this to future historians. I do remember that book called The Secrets of the Temple which came out 30 40. Anyway, who'd like to please? Yes, be you got your hand up first and then the gentleman Chris next to you. you could have the next question to save handing the microphone around too much. So, please say who you are. Would would you mind about just standing up? I always think this is a nice bit of decorum. Everybody can see who you are. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much, David. Um, uh, President Goulby, &gt;&gt; you have to say who you are as well. &gt;&gt; I should say who I am of Bro Capital. Um, &gt;&gt; so my question is about, you know, the statement last week said that the hike should serve to for to a timelier return uh to target. Um and I was wondering you know in your personal view what that means also because you were saying you talking about stuckflation but the reality and and you know the potential conflict of the two two sides of the mandates but the reality seems that the economy is doing really well so the problem is only on the inflation side. So wouldn't that suggest a fairly speedy um response and maybe return to target? Thanks very much. Uh okay th those are there two it's great to see again yeah um there are two questions in that um both are important I think there there's always an element of we're trying to figure out the through line so if it's what I highlighted in the opening statement the parts of inflation that are harder to rationalize as being from temporary supply shocks, namely services inflation and all of the AI data center buildup adjacent driven inflation. Those in my mind correlate more strongly with overheating demand. And I and I think you're I think the premise of the question is quite right. If the unemployment rate is barely 4% and core inflation is above three on an extended basis, there's not a conflict of mandates. There's just an inflation problem. and we know what the what what has to happen in that circumstance. But to back out, I I still said I'm optimistic that we we could get back onto a path of 2%. If we start to see progress I if in those areas there isn't evidence there isn't more evidence of demand overheating then I think it would then it it wouldn't be in that situation. So the the case for aggressive addressing is the same thing as the we have to figure out in the through line is this demand overheating or is this coming from from supply shock and for me personally I'm still I'm still sorting that out that there's there's conflicting evidence and I always say and you know and we've talked about it before when I arrived there was there's there's always the new person arrives and they try to figure out are you a hawk or a dove and I said I don't even know if I like birds I didn't aspire to be a bird I just always wanted to be one of the data dogs and the first rule of the data dogs is that there's a time for walking and a time for sniffing and it's important to tell the difference and this is the time for sniffing when you can't we got to figure out is this supplier higher demand. Sniff, sniff, sniff, you know, and sniff sniff it all. Um, &gt;&gt; well, dogs do do other things as well, but we we won't we won't get into that. &gt;&gt; Polite company. &gt;&gt; We won't expand that. So, Chris, your question, please. &gt;&gt; Okay, if you study, I'm just saying to everybody who you are just hi, &gt;&gt; it it helps. &gt;&gt; Hi, um, Chris Crow from Capular Investment Management. Thanks very much for being here, President Goulby. Um I I was very um I was very impressed by the way that you were quite early sort of talking about the demand shock elements of of data centers etc. AI I thought that was um you know an impressive piece of sort of intellectual uh leadership. I wonder what &gt;&gt; he responds to fluttery. &gt;&gt; Well [laughter] I always think &gt;&gt; now he's saying here comes &gt;&gt; but yeah I I always think when someone's visiting our country we need to be nice to them. Um so yeah here's the here's the butt. Um we have another potential sort of source of uh strength in aggregate demand in the US economy which could also be pushing potentially be pushing up inflation and supporting financial conditions uh which is persistent fiscal deficits of the order of 6% of GDP which appear to be going on as far as the eye can see. Is that a sort of source of demand in the economy that you you worry about and that you think that um could be inflationary and requires some sort of monetary policy response? &gt;&gt; Uh it it's part of it's part of aggregate demand. Fiscal is part of aggregate demand. the what what Chris referring to my what I said about aggregate demand from AI data centers was essentially the bigger the hype the bigger the risk of shortrun overheating because even if it's going to be a a big increase in productivity growth if much of it's in the future then it's going to go into equity prices today and it's going to go into trying to spend. We're going to invest and spend out of our stock market wealth before the capacity has actually expanded, then that could overheat it today. So, I'm I'm still ner I'm still worried about that. The question of fiscal deficits is part of aggregate demand. Um, this is one of those where it goes into the conditions. There's no bad weather. There's only bad clothing. the monetary policy. We're staying in our lane. We don't we don't weigh in an opinion of here's what taxes should be, here's what spending should be. That's the choice of the of the Congress and the president. If it's going to drive up prices or affect employment, then the law says we have to think about it. Um so to me that goes into the external conditions. Um I do think in an accounting sense much of that impact is what's the delta from last year. So high deficits that are persistent and not increasing have a different impact than even if you started at low deficits if the deficit is getting bigger and bigger. Um that would that would have a different shortrun business cycle implication. Just on on that, I mean, I thought you were going to say something else at the end of that sentence, but heaven forend that you could should tell the federal government what they should be doing any more than the president of course would ever dream of telling the Fed what to do. But but if you were to [laughter] uh if you and your fellows on the FMC were simply to maintain a steady drum beat of saying well look if you did tackle this underlying problem about the fiscal deficit you know you the body politic as a whole it would make our life a bit easier. Do you think that would have any impact on on your steeliness and your &gt;&gt; oh on our steel I thought you were going to say on them. &gt;&gt; Well on them as well but [laughter] well I should add that as well. What what what would the effect be? Were you to do it in the most decorous fashion possible? &gt;&gt; I don't it it doesn't sound to me like it it could be anything good. [clears throat] You know, as I say, my for my thinking about the fiscal monetary tradeoff. I try to stay in the lane of monetary policy and that's goes into the conditions. If that if we analyze it and feel like deficits are driving up inflation or driving up interest rates for a given level of demand, then it's relative. The law says we have to think about that. That's different than asking for why won't you make our life in the central bank easier by changing fiscal policy in XYZ way. For me, that's not the then then you're out of the then you're out of the Fed's lane. &gt;&gt; Great. Okay. So, Marica, you've got a question. &gt;&gt; March of Italian Central Bank. You just basically answered my question, but let me put it &gt;&gt; put it in another way, an even better &gt;&gt; Let me put it in another way. So, at the beginning of the talk, you said that basically you depicted an unconstrained maximization function. So, max employment and um price stability. So but from what you just said yours is not an unconstrained maximization function is a very very constrained maximization function because you need to to think about fiscal deficit external balance and everything. So my question is how constrained is your maximization function at the moment and is it based on your experience is it more or less constrained than in the past? Thank you. the the the word constraint is doing a lot of work in that sentence. So there is an economist kind of mathematical definition of constraint and then there's a popular definition of in you you might call influences. You know are are there things that are that are influencing the decision? I think that what in that formulation you would call unconstrained maximization is largely coming from when when the shocks are coming from aggregate demand that the imbalances are arising because the economy is overheating or not overheating and the the central bank as you know has only one tool and the reason it works That's sort of the divine coincidence as the economists like to call it is that the two sides of the mandate are not in conflict in certain circumstances like when aggregate demand is d driving things up or down. Um, normally the most interest rate sensitive sectors are also the most cyclical sectors. And so it kind of works that the central bank we're if the business cycle is booming, it tends to be booming in sectors that are very interest rate sensitive. And so when the central bank tightens rates, it um brings it back into balance. I think we are in a pretty constrained environment or potentially constrained environment because a lot of the shocks driving inflation right now are not coming from demand. they're coming from these supply shocks and that inherently makes it a a constrained optimization if you want to think of it that way because you're going to have those conflicting the fiscal not that I'm not saying it's a red herring but I'm saying it's a little bit of a red herring to call fiscal the constraint because in my world the fiscal is just part of aggregate demand. you you can still do optimal monetary policy fact factoring deficits and spending levels and the change from the the last year thinking of that as part of aggregate demand. Um, I would caution people from think sometimes lately there has been the argument that the Fed should cut the interest rate to make the issuance of debt cheaper. Okay, now let's be a little careful because that's the that is the canonical reason why you want monetary independence. That is the that is the monetize the debt argument. So if if you start thinking in that way now now you got a you you've got a weird optimization problem I guess I'd say. &gt;&gt; Just on that point the former chair Yelen of course did point out that were you to do that it might drive long-term interest rates higher. So in other words it would be rather counterproductive. Would you also point that out? Yeah, look there there's a as you know there's a lot of let's call it economic theory argument about the question &gt;&gt; if the if we get into the hall of mirrors problem where the &gt;&gt; the central bank is going to reflect what the what the fiscal authority is going to make decisions and the fiscal authority knows that the central bank is going to reflect. you can get into theoretically unstable situations easily. So that's why in my head like I'm not speaking for anybody else but in my head I take that fiscal is is the condition and if it's driving up inflation the law says we we have to think about it. So we do try to analyze what are the impact of fiscal on inflation. What are the impact on &gt;&gt; Thank you. That was very useful. Ellie in next question please. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much. Ellie Gross from State Street Investment Management. My question is around the the neutral rate. So for the Fed it's around 3.25% and markets it's higher uh pricing that higher looking at a floor of closer to 4%. How do you view this disconnect? Is the market mispricing or is the Fed not taking in the structural shift that you spoke around around the fact that we are in the new normal of persistent perhaps not supply shocks but continuous supply shocks that make that supply pressures ever greater and persistent in themselves. Okay, that this is the question of what is our star? And I have disparagingly referred to our star as our Sasquatch only because I'm I'm not I'm not denigrating the concept of there being a neutral rate. What I am making fun of is I don't think that that is useful as a shortrun guide to monetary policy decisionmaking because it is unobservable. So, as I say, it's like we're getting we're going to hang everything on am I taller or shorter than my imaginary friend. I don't know. And and it can't it can't be that I'm going to base my decision on something that is not observable. In the short run, as a long run concept, what where do you think rate if every all the shocks kind of go away, where would rates settle? I have historically been loosely on the lower end that I kind of thought, hey, a 3% rate with 2% inflation and 1% real felt approximately right to me. I think the things that determine the long run our star are slowm moving and don't well I'm about to say something that means the same thing. They're slow moving and [clears throat] they don't change very uh they don't change very rapidly. If you think that the productivity growth rate is going to be higher in the medium term because of AI or or whatever, that raises the long run rate. It doesn't lower it. Um, I still think that much of the shortrun argument is not really about whether the long run our star is 4% or 3% or 325. I think it's more to do with what do people think the inflation rate is going to be be. But long-term rates, as you know, there are a lot of things that influence long-term rates beyond just what do they think the Fed's short rate is going to be o o over this period. &gt;&gt; I must say as a non-economist who studied chemistry, I always get fed up with people making speeches about our star because I somehow feel they just don't want to talk about anything really important and therefore they therefore I find I find your response very very refreshing I have to say. And so the thing if you if you have in your mind a model there are some some people who are more driven by the R star they they they believe that you can estimate in the short run what RAR is. And the way I make peace with people who have that is whatever variables you think move our star around in the short run. I'm totally open [clears throat] to let's have a debate. If if you think it's it's productivity growth rate, fine. Let's talk about how does the productivity growth rate affect the interest rate. We don't need to mediate it through of a a model of of our star. &gt;&gt; Thank you. So Thomas, you've been very patient and therefore your question will have to be very short [laughter] to your price. Thank you very much for coming and speaking to us. So, I'm going to ask you about these task forces that chairman Worsh um suggested, you know, and I think there's a couple of questions. I will I will keep each one short, I promise. But to keep it just a one question if you can, he he'll understand what you're getting at. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, basically, um you know, I'm not asking you to preview what they'll conclude, but I'm just wondering what kind of topics they're considering, especially when it comes to communication, inflation targeting, as well as the balance sheet. Perhaps the last one is the one most &gt;&gt; Thank you. very good question. They they say it's an important question, but unfortunately I have &gt;&gt; first &gt;&gt; to p well I shouldn't say punt because this is this is a soccer crowd. You you think that means I'm betting or something? Um this the task forces are set up very distinguished people from outside the Fed and they're largely doing their thing without we we aren't on the task forces so I I don't I don't know. I apologize. It's very good that you're not on the task force. So you you'll be kept in suspense like all of us. Eric, &gt;&gt; I'm Eric N from Independent Economics. It's a small boutique here in London. &gt;&gt; All but perfectly formed. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Thank you very much. Um are you as surprised as I am uh that you've had about over five years of inflation about 3% or higher. uh so well above your target and inflation expectations have been quite well behaved. Um and in that context uh when sort of what was quoted before was has been said about now you really want inflation to sort of start to approach its target. Should we actually take this seriously? uh I noticed employment has been good through these five years also generally speaking right and then if I make related your very good speech on supply shocks I really and I made me think a lot but it also made me think in this world of more frequent shock supply shocks can inflation can a central bank actually deliver inflation around the target is it or is it going to be too just too just volatile over time is it realistic or is there then a risk to credibility if it just so dances around numbers. Thanks. &gt;&gt; Both of those are important. I have we've we've been above the 2% target for five more than five years now, almost five and a half years, but it hasn't been stable for that whole time. There were in 2023 especially also in 2024 we were making progress and I thought hey this is this is a path back to 2%. Then we've in the last year year and a half stopped making progress first stalled out and then at several points it's going the wrong way. Um, so I highlight that subtlety because I don't want us to get into a I I don't agree with the characterization that we've basically been above the target for five and a half years, making no progress, just cruising along. Why didn't we take some different action? Um, because I don't think that that that oversimplifies what what's happened. Now that said, longerrun marketbased inflation expectations have remained remarkably stable and they remained remarkably stable during the period where CPI inflation was almost double digits and that still they still stayed stable. I think a large part of that is from not necessarily just Paul Vulker himself, but comes from the credibility that if you ask people where do you think inflation in the market, where do you think inflation will be in 10 years, they think, well, the Fed will try to drive it down to 2%. It sort of leads to but but side note if you look at surveybased expectations measures and especially if you don't look at 10-year kind of measure but but two-year one to twoyear which are relevant for wage and price setting there's been a lot of movement on those and we should be I I I favor favor looking at putting more weight on the market-based measures, but we should not ignore the uh the other measures. It leads to the deeper question of is it unrealistic to actually hold the 2% inflation if we're going to get supply chocks all the time. If it were unrealistic, I would have thought that would be reflected in the market measure that they would say, "Yeah, the Fed is going to try to do this, but they're not going to be able to." Um, and so I think the here in this sentence, the thing that does the work is our 2% goal is in the medium run. It's not a I think if we're going to have a higher frequency of supply shocks, we're going to have episodes of inflation that that get above 2%. The the question of whether in the medium and longer run we can get it back down to two. I still think yes. um not think yes we yet that we will and I still think even in the short run there is I I [snorts] remain relatively optimistic it's I've looked at the at the dot plot when it came out we don't everybody submits their dot independently I'm among the more optimistic folks that we can get back on path inflation headed to 2% and if that if we have some convincing evidence that we're headed back to 2%. I have no problem with rates going back, you know, heading back down to where I think they're going to. So, &gt;&gt; I I do hope that we're actually contributing to this optimism during the course of this conversation, kind of working your way in that direction. So, please you, sir, and then we've got two more questions and then that's going to be the end. &gt;&gt; Yeah, thank you very much. Uh, regard tutor, I wanted to ask about the monetary stance. uh at the press conference last week uh uh chairman wars described the hike as removing a dose of accommodation which doesn't particularly suggest a tight monetary stance. So I wanted to ask where you see the monetary stance and the policy implications around that because obviously facing supply shocks when when you're tight is probably quite different than than facing supply shocks when when the monetary stance is a lot looser. &gt;&gt; Thank you. And please give the microphone to the lady who answered it. But after you after you've answered &gt;&gt; with the mon you you pulled a sneaky one on me because the statement what is the monetary stance? Now we're back to the question of well what is our star? So the by the monetary stance it means is this restrictive or is this not restrictive? That is the question. Am I taller or am I shorter than my imaginary friend or Sasquatch? I I don't know. I don't know. I know right now we do not have an employment problem and we do have an inflation problem. And so in my world, that's why I supported this decision. I've been waiting. I'm I'm I'm open to being shown that the inflation problem we have is not a persistent problem, but is coming from a supply shock that is going to go away. But I want to see the evidence that it's going away. Otherwise, we know what what has to happen. And it's why last year when I was I'm not a voter this year, Chicago votes every other year. Last year in the last decision, I kept expressing we had three cuts in a row and I was expressing unease with the idea that we're going to frontload the rate cuts and just count on the inflation going away and being temporary because it's a supply shock. And so I ended up dissenting at the last of the meetings because we literally the government shut down and we didn't even have the data. So I think it's got the show me we're moving into the Missouri show me state. That's their motto. We need to see some evidence that the that uh that we're getting back on a path to 2% or else, as I say, we we know what what has to happen. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Please. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much. A quick question about communication. Um, since a difficult national political environment, uh, do you think that it be worthy for the for the Fed to launch a communication campaign uh to reinforce the trust in the institutions and get support from the general public? Thank you. Um maybe uh at at the reserve banks like out in Chicago, I think the de Fed demystification effort um is important to Fed credibility. the in the United States my my understanding is also around the world but in the United States there's been a great crisis of public trust in all institutions in anything that's perceived as bureaucrat faceless government elite uh and the Fed is kind of in the vent diagram of of all of those um and so I do think it's important that we explain what the Fed does and that we're not the bad guys we're the Guardians of the Galaxy. I mean, we're we're we're we're going to go out and and and defend the American way. Um, &gt;&gt; now that's different from a what you call it a communications campaign. I I think the the the reserve banks in the in the US system we have these regional uh focuses and I think that's a natural fit for the regional banks because in the same way people like their their Congress person but they dislike Congress there there is an element that the the local banks are members of the community and and seen as as uh more in that. So I do think it's important to do that um separate from setting up monetary policy. &gt;&gt; Thank you. So last question from the floor please. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much President Gby from Eurasia Group and other Italian. So on the question of independence thoughts on the SVB report and the possibility that the White House attempts to fire Governor Bar and in your books does the presence uh of a possible supposed cause make it a case different from that of Governor Cook? Thank you. &gt;&gt; You're on multiple grounds totally out of my lane on on this one. The reserve banks do not set regulatory policy. We simp we it's a delegated authority from the board of governors in Washington DC. So so we don't I I don't have an opinion about the policy errors on the Silicon Valley Bank or others. And I'm not a lawyer. I don't I don't know anything about um I don't know anything about these legal cases. &gt;&gt; Yes. I think just reiterate Fed independence when setting the interest rate is very important if you want inflation to go away. &gt;&gt; I I think you made it very clear this is issue about staying in your lane. I do think that is really one of the very strong points about independence. You if you're independent you have to respect the rules and and that's exactly what you're doing. So we're coming to the end of this hourong session. I'd like to thank you very much indeed. I just want to put one small question to you about the dollar because it's something that people must keep coming up with you uh when you're traveling around the world. There is this view that somehow people are not so sure about the sanctity of the dollar or maybe the sanctity of the US Treasury signature. It could be that the two things are somehow linked. What do you say about that based on your experience as a member of the FOMC? A as you know dollar policy is a is a purview of the treasury US treasury. Um my observation is that the economists that look at this would would economists tend to think on the margin if you thought the dollar was losing its role as a reserve currency of the world. On the margin we would be seeing more transactions taking place with some other currency. the dollar share of of transaction volume, let's say, of international trade that does not involve the United States. A lot of that trade is is done in dollars. You'd think that would be going down. &gt;&gt; At the least, it's staying stable and there's some evidence that that it's actually rising. And I I still think for whatever um for it takes a model to beat a model and it takes a currency to to beat a currency. Um the US growth has been pretty pretty robust and it's a it's a such a big fraction of financial transactions especially but but also real economy transactions. I as as an observer I don't I don't I don't see it. &gt;&gt; No. Thank you. Well, I think you have been the communications campaign. You were asked by Margarita about the communications campaign. This is the communications campaign. It's been very very open. Um you you have been long enough uh at the University of Chicago as a economics professor to know all the answers. But even when you don't know the answers, you act as though you do. And therefore, I'd like to thank you very much indeed. &gt;&gt; Dangerous. I'd like to thank you very much for this tour. Thank you. [applause]
