SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p1b2jimYd8w
YOUTUBE: Bloomberg_Feb24

Kind: captions
Language: en
Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts,
radio, news.
&gt;&gt; Well, thank you very much and we'd like
to welcome all our viewers and listeners
around the world to Bloomberg radio and
television. And we'd like to welcome
Austin Goulby.
&gt;&gt; Thank you for having me.
&gt;&gt; Bloomberg radio and television. Uh I
want to start with the next meeting and
the meetings beyond because that's the
general focus of the folks on trading
desks. uh coming out of the last two
years, the focus seemed to be on the
unemployment rate, on the labor market
and cutting rates to get ahead of a
problem with the the labor market. But
listening to you this morning, it sounds
like you're more concerned about
inflation that inflation may have become
the primary risk. Yeah, I I would say in
my head in 23 and 24 since I've been on
the Fed, uh inflation's been has never
gone away as a as a central focus.
When the labor market is deteriorating,
it comes back in in a in a major way.
But I'm a little more concerned about
inflation right now because I think the
job market is pretty steady. I think
growth is pretty steady.
I think there's some promising stuff in
the inflation reports, but there's also
some warning signs. So, as I say, I'm
not hawkish about rates. I'm pretty
optimistic that we can get rates down
further, multiple cuts in 2026
as long as we see the progress on
inflation that forecasters have been
forecasting that it's supposed to start
coming down and I just want us to see
some progress on that front and not get
ahead of ourselves. Well, you talked
about that a little bit and it's a
question I asked Jay Powell once is it
seems like every time you put out a
summary of economic projections, the uh
economic outlook by the various members
of the open market committee, the 2%
target gets hit two years from now. The
next one, it's two years from now.
&gt;&gt; So, what goes wrong?
&gt;&gt; That's a lot of things can go wrong. Um,
in this case, what I want to make sure
is not going wrong is that we we need
inflation not to be persistent.
When the part of inflation that has come
from tariffs is supposed to go away,
it's supposed to be transitory. And when
you see things like the forecast say
inflation's going to peak out and then
start falling by the end of 2025
and then that moves the goalpost. Well,
maybe it'll be the first quarter of 26
and now they're saying, well, maybe it
will be the second quarter of 26. That's
not a great sign. We we need to see we
should see especially on the good side
if the tariff inflation is transitory
it's supposed to start going away and as
soon as we start getting some evidence
that we're back on the path to 2% as I
say I think rates can still keep going
down and if you look at the at the SCP
dot plot a large group of the committee
thinks that where rates will eventually
settle is still well below where we are
today. It's just we we must get
inflation down from this 3%
level that we've been stalled out at for
now a year or more. Well, now you've got
this whole new tariff uncertainty from
the Supreme Court. president's going to
impose what he started today a 10%
tariff universally brings down the
tariff rate some but they say they're
going to use other uh means to get the
tariffs rates back up to about where
they were. So now you'll have this dip
perhaps in inflation and then it could
go back out again. So you said uh you
want to see uh inflation going down.
Does that get pushed out? Do does it
become later in this year when you can
even think about it?
&gt;&gt; I don't think so. I I think when I'm out
in the seventh district in the Midwest
talking to folks, they talk a lot about
uncertainty, policy uncertainties,
geopolitical uncertainties.
The thing to remember about the tariffs,
even if the tariffs stay exactly as they
were,
just in a different form, the inflation
impact is supposed to go away. So if the
rates are lower than what they were
before, that should be even that should
make it even more true that that we
should see the inflation going down. I
think that the policy uncertainty
we're seeing more on the labor side. I
think the low hiring, low firing
environment is what you would expect
when there's a lot of uncertainty.
That's not really what the beginning of
a recession looks like. Low hiring with
high layoffs, that's what the beginning
of a recession looks like. For both of
those to be low is a bit of a weird duck
and I think is explained by a a lot of
we want to wait and see what's going to
happen. And so if you have question
marks coming from the Supreme Court,
coming from other policy responses, I
think you're likely to see continuation
of that low hiring, low firing
environment.
&gt;&gt; Well, what are CEOs telling you they
want to see before they would be willing
to hire again?
&gt;&gt; What what they tend to say is we want to
know what the rules of the road are
going to be. And right now we don't know
what the rules of the road are going to
be and there could be very significant
changes. Um and uh look, I'm sympathetic
with that. The the rules are moving
around. If you're in a business like the
auto industry, our the Chicago Fed
district has by far the most auto
production in the United States. It's a
global supply chain for the auto
industries. They're very amped up about
what will be the treatment of parts,
components, supplies that they use to to
make the cars.
So far, they were pleasantly surprised
that anything USMCA compliant was was
kind of exempted.
Now I if the rumors are to be true that
whatever they're they might renegotiate
the USMCA or would Canada be in the
USMCA.
Of course that's what they're going to
express uncertainty about things like
that and it's going to affect their
decisions in the short run. Over the
long run, as I say, I still think the
the American consumer's been pretty
solid. [snorts] We've got a steady job
market. If we make progress on
inflation, I think rates are are
trending down.
&gt;&gt; Well, we've seen uh productivity rise a
little bit uh in the last couple of
months.
When you look at what the companies are
telling you, are they saying maybe we
don't need to hire as many people
because we're getting this job done.
We're keeping, you know, up with orders.
Some I mean, the economy is extremely
diverse and the answer to the question
of what are the labor market prospects
and do they need to hire depends very
much on the industry. If you talk to
software companies, a lot of them are
saying, "Hey, the AI technologies,
there's some uncertainty, but the only
uncertainty is should we not hire or
should we actually let people go?" But
if you look in the health care sector,
it's a booming sector.
Employment continues to expand in that
sector and you you don't hear some of
those. So the answer to that depends a
lot on who you're talking to.
&gt;&gt; Well, productivity is going to be a big
issue for the Fed coming up with the new
chairman coming in, Kevin Worsh, who's
pretty much wed to the idea that AI is
going to create a lot of additional
productivity, which will bring inflation
down. Now, having talked to you, I know
that uh you're not as sure about that.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, look, I I I I hope that that that
is what happens. Let's remember
productivity growth is the thing that
makes us rich. So if we get high
productivity growth, incomes are going
to go up. There are a balance of things
that happen when productivity goes up
though that that we should remember. It
can be deflationary. Um at the same time
it can stim and you have seen it. It can
stimulate a lot of investment and in the
short run people counting on future
productivity growth can overheat the
economy
just in the near term. And as you go
around the country, you hear a lot of
discussion about data center investment
demand, using up all the HVAC people,
buying up all the electrical equipment,
using up computer chips, um, and in a
way making prices higher for the rest of
the economy. We just got to think about
some of those issues.
What what are the implications of high
productivity growth? But overall, I if
that is uh Kevin W's position, I've
known him a long time. I respect him a
great deal. I I mostly agree with him.
&gt;&gt; Now, in March, you have to come up with
a new summary of economic projections, a
set of forecasts for where you think the
economy will go. Um you're probably
going to be waiting a while till you
have to actually put those on paper. But
let me ask this, how much confidence are
you going to have given everything
that's going on right now in the numbers
you put down? Uh,
do you want to view that as as much
confidence as we ever have or it's not
very much confidence? Both of those can
be true. Um, there's a lot of
uncertainty and we we have to make
decisions with the with the data we
have. So, I take my own views and that
of my staff with a heavy grain of salt
when things are changing a lot. we've
seen in the last three years
unexpected, unprecedented shocks hitting
us. I'm sure we'll get some more in in
26. Um, but as I say, I'm still
optimistic that we're basically
cruising along with solid growth, a
steady labor market. We've got some
encouraging and some discouraging signs
coming on the inflation side. If we can
just get some improvement, I feel like
we could still get back on the golden
path uh that we were on before.
&gt;&gt; Another Kevin Worsh idea is that the Fed
should go back to a scarce uh reserves u
way of managing monetary policy. Would
you support that?
&gt;&gt; We we should constantly be evaluating
the as as a body what we're doing and
the and the efficacy of doing that. We
switched out of that scarce reserves
based regime to the to to what we do now
because in crisis there were some holes
in a scarce reserves regime.
It's it's possible we we should study
it. We should contemplate it. If we're
going to seriously
think about doing that, we probably do
want to revisit some of the some of the
logic of how we got to where we are now
and and moved away from that. Uh coming
up is uh the J Pal's in theory he'll
leave the chairmanship. He could stay on
the board. A lot of people looked at the
uh last decision and noted that in
January you always choose the chairman
for the rest of the year for the open
market committee and that's what you did
this time instead of as has been done in
the past saying chairman until
successors in place. If Kevin Worsh is
not confirmed by then would you support
Jay Pal remaining as chairman of the
open market committee?
&gt;&gt; Uh I don't know. It sounds like you have
a lot more expertise on the language of
these uh decisions. I I've said
unapologetically I think J. Pal's a
first ballot hall of fame fed chair and
and I'm a big supporter of his. I I
don't know what the what the rules are.
Um
when people's terms expire as chair, are
they allowed to stay on? If they are,
I'm I'm a I'm a big J. Palter. Well, J.
Paul can stay on as a governor,
certainly. And would you like to see him
do that?
&gt;&gt; I don't know. I I like I like being him
being around for sure.
&gt;&gt; So, you're not going to Have you talked
to him about it at all?
&gt;&gt; I haven't talked to him about that.
It's not It's not my place. You know,
the rules of the thing are we speak only
for ourselves. We're not supposed to
talk about what anybody else's thoughts
are, opinions, or speak for the
committee. So I I don't really have
anything to add on it.
&gt;&gt; Last question. All politics are local
for the Chicago district. This is a
message for you. Do you support the
Bears going to Indiana?
&gt;&gt; Uh look to the Chicago Bears. Wherever
they build a stadium, it they better be
called the Chicago Bears. Uh but
where where the public financing that's
out of the feds that's out of the feds
lane. Save the toughest question for
last.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. [laughter]
&gt;&gt; Austin Goulsby, thank you very much.