SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sfB5QnbNjwM
EVENT DATE: 2026-07-14 (Kenosha Area Business Alliance Business Lunch, Kenosha, WI; moderated by KABA President Nicole Ryf; YouTube auto-transcript, full replay upload 2026-07-15)

ready.

>> Okay.

>> All right. Good afternoon everyone. We're about to get started. We'll ask you to please be quiet.

>> Good afternoon everyone. I am so thrilled to welcome you here today to our Kosha Area Business
Alliance business launch. My name is Nicole Riff. I have the privilege of serving as the president
of Cababa. I am really excited um that we have maxed out this space here today. Our business
community has really turned out. So, thank you to all of you for joining us today. Really grateful
to have you here. And it is my true pleasure and honor to introduce the president and CEO of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Austin Goulsby. um he's here today with us for a very special
conversation about the economy and just really everything that we're all thinking about as a
business community. So, please join me in welcoming Austin. [applause]

>> It's great to be back in Kenosha for something besides just going to the broad stop. [laughter]

>> We were thrilled to know that you knew about the broad stop. It is certainly an iconic location
here in Kenosha. So, welcome. you know, rather than going through your bio, um, which obviously we
know is really

>> Wait, Nicole, you didn't tell them. Her parents met at the broadstop. That's literally where they
met.

>> I don't know if everybody in this audience knew that. So, I do have a special connection here.
So, thank God for the broad stop. Otherwise, I literally would not be here. So, [laughter]

>> so again, really grateful to have you here. And I figured rather than going through your bio,
reading something off, I think it'd be great to hear from you about your career path and how you
ended up in this job. Oh geez. Um, I was born in Waco, Texas. My dad's family's from Waco. My mom's
family from Abalene. They moved to California when I was a kid. Um, I when when I was in high
school, I liked public affairs and speech and debate and I liked math and science and um I was
uninformed, but I wasn't wrong that it seemed like economics was sort of a combination of the debate
team and math and science. Um, so I got into that and the I went to college and then got a PhD and
then my first job was at the University of Chicago Business School and I fell madly in love with the
Mid I had never spent any time in the in the Midwest and then 30 years later I kind of woke up and
and uh and realized this is home and that that's the University of Chicago for somebody in
economics. I I used to say it was kind of like Disneyland was for my when my kids were 10 years old.
If you're economist, it was it's amazing. The university is amazing. The city, the region, lovely.
the a guy that I knew mostly from birthday parties was named Barack Obama and was a teacher at the
University of Chicago. And it's not every day that somebody you knew from from the neighborhood
becomes the president. But I went for the first three years of the Obama administration. I was a the
at the council of economic adviserss. I came back to the university and then the Chicago Fed there's
mandatory retirement at age 65. So that you might have met Charlie Evans was the previous president
and his birthday was public knowledge and so he was leaving and it was I I miss the mission driven
aspect of of DC. There are a lot of things that drive you crazy um about Washington and policym, but
the it's very unlike academics in that you don't wake up every week and say, "Who cares? Nobody's
even paying attention. Why you why are we doing this?" Um and this job was still had a foot in
economics research. we have a very respected research department plus it was policy plus I didn't
have to move and so uh so I applied for the job and and I got it and I've been there about three and
a half years and it's been it's been lovely.

>> That's fantastic

>> for the most part. [laughter] Yeah,

>> every job is like that, right? There's some challenges, right? Well, I think something that would
be interesting for us to talk about is is the Fed in general, right? So the average person, you
know, going back 10 years probably had never even heard of the Fed, but the last 5 10 years with
everything going on in the economy, you know, it seems to be the front page of every newspaper. Um,
but I think it would probably help all of us to know a little bit about what the Fed actually does
and also what the Fed does not do. So if you share about that, that'd be great.

>> Those that's a great way to ask it. Um the Fed the Fed does monetary policy which is setting of
an interest rate. It's basically setting interest rates and we just do a shortterm interest rate and
it's very kind of in the weeds. Um we don't do fiscal policy which is every other thing except the
setting of that short-term interest rate. So taxes, income distribution, environmental policy, all
of that type of stuff is not our that Congress does that and the president does that. And I always
say, look, our Midwest motto is there's no bad weather, there's only bad clothing. You tell us the
conditions and we'll pick the jacket and like we're going to go do the job. And what Congress does
is the conditions we we have to take that if they if they put in tariffs, if they change some
policy, if there's wars in the Middle East, if there are big shocks to the economy, we got to
process that. The Federal Reserve Act tells us gives us a job by law when setting the interest rate.
We're supposed to maximize employment and stabilize prices and that's it. That that's that's we call
that the dual mandate. That's the job. And we take that super seriously. My observation at the at
the FOMC meetings is every they come from different regions. They come from different backgrounds.
They take that job really seriously. It's not about well what does the makes the stock market happy.
It's not about what make the president happy or the congress happy. It's all about the dual mandate.
That's the most public part of the job. Every six weeks we all fly to Washington DC and have a FOMC
meeting and we decide on on this interest rate. But slash and the Fed does more than just that.
especially the 12 reserve banks that are not the the DC Fed. We are bank supervisors and the
regulation. We don't set the policies, but we send the people out to the banks, make sure they're
complying with the law and they have the capital that they say they have. We do financial services.
We are in a very real sense kind of a bank to the banks. So they have a master account at the Fed
and if they want cash for for their ATMs, they place an order. All the the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing prints all the money. All the cash in the economy is distributed through the banks. And if
you come through the if you come through Chicago or if you're at the Detroit branch, we got vaults
with a 80,000 pound door and a dual combination. It's like our nuclear secrets. Half the people know
one combination and half know the other. And we got tens of billions of dollars in there and we're
running it in and out every day and pulling out the counterfeit. We run $6 trillion dollar a day of
payments. Almost the majority of wired transfers. The majority of AC direct deposit transactions. $6
trillion dollar per day is running over the Fed rails. And we're participants out in the community.
And we're supposed to be coming out to places like this and hearing from you, talking to business
leaders, talking to civic leaders what's happening in the region. The Chicago's district is 90% of
Iowa, Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan, Indiana. It's kind of heart of the Midwest. It's the most
manufacturing intensive of all the districts. It's by far the most auto production of of all the
districts. And because manufacturing tends to be among the most cyclical parts of the economy, there
is a sense in which even though everybody's fiercely proud of their own district, they are
interested well what's happening in the seventh district because we're a little bit canary in the
coal mine of the of the business cycle. So those are the those are the things we do. Those are the
four they talk about five functions of the Fed. I gave you four. The fifth one is we're the lender
of last resort and the protector of financial stability. And the Fed was created in 1913 following
the panic of 1907 because people realize, hey, you better have a lender of last resort who's who
monitors and and does financial stability. that's a little more controversial because if you ever
get to the spot where you're having to be the lender of last resort, somebody screwed something up
and and so there there's a lot of there's a lot of recriminations. Um, but that's basically what the
what the Fed does. And as I like to say, the when I first started, I went and looked up the polling.
The inflation rate was pretty high already. I didn't do it. I wasn't there. If you if you were upset
about two 2021, that was before I I got the Fed, a big majority of the country, 75 or something
percent of people said they were familiar with the Federal Reserve, but they did not know what it
did. And then an even bigger majority said that while they didn't know what it did, they thought it
was doing a bad job. And so so I took some component of the job of these reserve banks. We're out in
the in the heartland is demystify the Fed and explain. We're not we're not magicians. Everybody is
coming. We got economists, we got market people, we got business people, different people sit around
the table and we're all just down there trying to do the job as is given to us by law. And we're not
the bad guys. We're the guardians of the galaxy. I mean that that's the [laughter] our role is only
on this much. You know, the world is as big as this. Ours is on this much. But at least in that part
of the world, it makes big difference what what the Fed does.

>> Absolutely. So, you talked a little bit about the physical money aspect of what you do.

>> Yeah.

>> Can you tell us how we would know if any of our money actually comes from the Chicago Federal
Reserve Bank?

>> When you say comes from, that's doing a lot of work in that sense. It's on the Chicago Fed
balance sheet. If I'm Do I have a one? [laughter] I hope I do. Yes. Oh, yes. Look, here's a $1 bill.
If you have a $1 bill, there's a letter and if you if your eyes are better than mine, you can read
it and it will say what Federal Reserve Bank. It's on the balance sheet of this one says G, which is
the seventh letter. And if you look at it, it says Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. So, if you have
the G money, you're you're you're on our balance sheet.

>> So, we've got some swag in this area. We've got the G money.

>> We got the G [laughter] money. I thought you were going to say, "Can you tell if it's
counterfeit?" And [laughter] everybody who works in cash at the Fed has to be certified for
counterfeit detection every six months. So when I got there, this is the coolest thing I've ever
seen all this cash. I Well, I was like, I need the training. So now I'm certified for counterfeit
detection. I can tell you that, too, if you

>> Okay, that's good to know. I would love to hear a little bit more about that. Okay. One thing is
you see those people lick it, don't don't lick it. That that's not a thing. Believe me, like if the
if the when the money's been in circulation long enough that it's got all of whatever is going to
get on there, we shred it. You like you do not want to be licking it. Um, but there are various
security features. If you hold it up to the light, you should see a little watermark. Like say you
looked at a $100 bill, there's a little invisible Benjamin Franklin separate from the photo that
that you hold up to the light and you and you can see him. If you have a black light

>> flashlight and you shine it, there'll be a shiny strip that that pops. If you wiggle it, the the
uh the ink changes color on the hund. One one time early in the Fed, my wife came home and she was
like, "I found a $100 bill in the street." She was like really excited. She's like, "This is
amazing." She's like, "Is somebody at the Fed? Can they tell if this is real? Because I don't want
to use it if it's not real." And I was like, "Oh yeah, they can tell." This before I was certified.
So, I came down and the the woman who's the head of cash is named Amy Alvarado. I was like, "Amy,
can you tell if this is real?" And I handed it to her and it and it was like this. She'd touch it
like this. It's fake. I was like, "What? [laughter] What? How do you know that?" She's like, "I can
just tell by touching it. That's definitely fake." And then she she said, "If you feel it, it feels
like paper. It's not supposed to feel like paper." She's like, "The strip is supposed to be made of
plastic. That's just toner, like from somebody's printer." And then she turned it over and printed
in red. All on the back were the all these Chinese characters and it said, "Do not copy." And she
was like, "You didn't even look at this." [laughter] But u but so that's that's how you know it's
Chicago money. And that's how you know it's real money.

>> Excellent. So we love real Chicago money. Good to know. So, you know, in sharing a little bit
about what's going on at the Fed and what the responsibilities are, you talked a bit about how part
of what you do is you go out and you meet with communities and businesses to hear what's going on.
Tell us more about your actual job and what your day-to-day job looks like because I'm sure it's
different every day.

>> Why does sometimes that morphs into why does Chicago have a Fed? You know, why why is it
different from every other government agency? And to add more to the mix, the 12 reserve banks that
are around the country are not government agencies. They're actually not forprofits. And each one
has its own board that's made up of the boards of directors that are local business leaders, local
bank leaders, local civic leaders, and they're the ones who choose the presidents of the banks.
They're not political appointees the way that the DC Fed is. The reason that exists is because when
they created the Fed in 1913, just like today, people were deeply uncomfortable that the federal
government or the federal government plus the Wall Street banks would collectively control the
entire US financial monetary system with no input from the rest of the country. So they created a
system that automatically has regional independence in it comprised of people who are coming from
from out through throughout the country. And if we get into the real weeds of like how does the
voting work and this it's a rotating mix. There's 19 people around the table, the seven DC people
and the 12 reserve banks, but only five of the 12 reserve banks are voting at any given time. So
yes, it's a little bit cluji, but that regional aspect has proven to be a little bit of stroke of
genius. And unlike the first national bank of the United States and the second bank of the United
States, this one has stuck and lasted. And I think in large measure it's because you have automatic
representing from the regions. So then you say what does the bank president do? The you're the CEO.
There are little bit less than 2,000 people work at Chicago Fed. There's 1,500 of them at the
Chicago um headquarters. And then there's a Detroit branch and we've got uh De Moine office with
mostly bank supervision. Um and then some folks sprinkled out throughout the district because
there's banks all over the place. And part of the job of the president is a management job of making
sure we're supervising banks, making sure that we're providing financial services in a in a
compelling way. If you got as much money as we got, we got a law enforcement unit. You we got we got
our own police force. um and then getting out and being an upstanding member of the of the community
and hearing from the business and and other leaders plus every six weeks go to Washington DC and
there's a there's a whole so of any six week period let's call it two of the weeks are preparing for
and going to the FOMC meeting doing monetary policy and then the other four weeks weeks are managing
the functions of the overseeing the functions of the Fed that that all the employees are doing or
getting out and talking to people and and hearing about conditions.

>> Interesting. And I'm assuming that data analysis and understanding is a big part of what you're
doing. Yeah, that's the whole recommendations you're making.

>> That's the whole job, I think.

>> Yeah. And so, you know, today obviously is a really big day from that standpoint when we were
connecting with your team over the last couple of weeks who have been great to work with. By the
way, um they shared with us that today is a really big day in the world of the Fed and really just
in the world of economics. So, it is the day that the consumer price index comes out for the month.

>> Yeah, the inflation came out this month. So, that yeah,

>> I don't know if it's like Fourth of July for us or you know, that's a big that's a big day, but
it comes every month. Um, so the if you didn't see it, the CPI came out this morning and for this
month it was surprisingly benign and inflation was lower than than what it has been running and that
was that was nice and it was a bit cutting the other way from from what things have been for the
last six months or so. But I always say one month is no months. You know, you never want to
overreact to to one month. If we got several months like this, I would be feeling better. What I've
been been highlighting for the last several months is if you break out inflation into components,
housing, goods, services. The services thing is the one that's made me the most nervous because

>> you could convince yourself that tariffs should be a one-time increase in prices but not a
lasting inflation rate increase. That should be one and done. But services don't really they're not
affected by tariffs that much and they're not affected by the price of oil that much. So the fact
that services inflation has been way too high historically services inflation is quite persistent.
And so that's what I've been highlighting. That number has been making me nervous at least today. At
least for this one, the services inflation was very um was was encouraging. And if we got more, not
to get too far into the weeds, CPI inflation is one measure of inflation.

>> It's not exactly the measure we usually look at. We look at a broader measure called PCE
inflation, which includes some other prices. We got to see what those producer prices h how their
inflation is doing and we'll get that tomorrow. Um, but if we got PCE versions of inflation that
look like what the CPI inflation was today and we got that for several months and it was clear we're
back on a path toward 2% inflation, which is our target, um, I I would be feeling a lot better. Um,
and I felt like before we got some of what I was calling the stagflationary dust in the air, we were
on path to get to 2%. And the sooner we can show that we're headed back to 2%, I think the sooner we
can normalize.

>> So, it's hard to have a crystal ball obviously, especially with all the volatility and the change
that's happening in the world right now. But what should we expect this year when it comes to the
interest rate and kind of what the future's looking like here?

>> [laughter]

>> That's a big question. Let's back up to that's a huge question. And I'm not I have never been a
huge fan of forecasting here's what the interest rate is going to do even at the next meeting. I
don't like even implicitly tying our hands or or putting weight on the scale. I want to see what the
data are coming in and I want to hear from the other of the 19 people sitting around the table
because I I have found it to be a people take the job very seriously and it's a really um it's a
it's a wonderful deliberative body. Uh it doesn't mean it's we still make mistakes because like I
say we're we're not magicians. Um, but it's a it's a it's a deliberative body. That said, I think
that on the job market side, the fear in the middle of last year expressed by a bunch of folks
publicly was that maybe the job market was falling apart, was deteriorating. My read of the job
market is it's been remarkably stable without being good. So it's not a super boom, but it's not
falling apart. Almost all the measures have been pretty stable. And the thing that was I think it's
a little misleading is there was a time when if you asked an economist what's the thing if you could
only look at one number to tell you where we are in the business cycle how the job market is doing
they would have told you take the monthly jobs created number payroll employment take that number
that's the best number that has broken down as a as the leading indicator of the business cycle.
It's not working because there are major question marks about population growth. A lot coming from
immigration, some coming from labor force participation and the elderly and and now I'm going to
count a over age 55 traditionally had relatively low labor force participation. That thing is
declining, declining. Choices that people over age 55, let's call it 55 to 75 are making about
whether they want to work longer. Those make a huge difference in how many jobs are created. And we
had really big jobs created per month numbers

>> which some people interpreted as we're about to overheat and I started saying then hey wait a
minute that's not a great indicator of the business cycle because we're having a ton of immigration
that you don't know that's adding to the population And now we've seen the reverse side. We've had
relatively weak objective numbers of jobs created, but the unemployment rates been stable and all
the ratesbased measures, the hiring rate, the layoff rate, the vacancy rate, the unemployment rate,
those have been largely flat. And I think those are the best indicators of business cycle. I still
feel like unless we're getting big shocks coming from wars, pandemics, that a lot of things have
gone wrong over the last five or eight years, but the through line has been stability in the job
market without it doesn't feel like a super boom. And anybody who's got teenage kids or kids coming
out of college as I do, you know, the hiring rate is very low. Okay? So, if you just took the hiring
rate, it's as low as it is at the depths of a recession. And so of course new graduates are going to
feel that the most because they're disproportionately the new hires. But at the same time the layoff
rate is so low that you would think we're at the peak of a giant boom that no people aren't getting
laid off and people aren't getting hired. And it's worth noting that's a weird combination. That's
not a normal business cycle combination. I think it's because of there's a lot of uncertainty and so
business is just they don't want to let go the people was hard enough to get the people they got but
they don't want to bring on new people because they're like well what if everything switches and I
feel like on the job side we're still going to see that on the inflation side we've had more of a
problem we were making progress from 3% getting down and down we were close to 2% for a 10-month
period, let's call it. Then we stopped making progress. The tariffs came in. That was supposed to go
away. We were kind of waiting for that increment to go away. Then the war started, the price of oil
went up before that one had gone away. So we stopped making I had to turn it backward for you. It
was coming down, then it stopped going down, and then lately it's been going the wrong way. And it's
way inflation way too high, going the wrong way. And now we got to start having a conversation about
is inflation going to be more persistent than than what we wanted it to be, than what the forecast
was going to be. That for me has been the thing I've been trying to grapple with and why I've been
as nervous about services inflation as I have because usually if you got services inflation that's
not going away quickly. I'm heartened by this CPI today, but we need a lot more than one month to to
think that it that it's going well.

>> I'd like to dig a little deeper on some of the comments you made about just the general
population and demographics and um workforce. So something that we've been talking a lot about here
in Kenosha County is the demographic cliff. So we're kind of on the precipice of that. We've been
talking for a long time that the baby boomers are starting to retire. The silver tsunami is coming.
The younger generations are smaller than past generations. We also have obviously a decrease in
immigration at least the last year or so with new policies. Um so we're really starting to have
conversations here around how do we tackle that, right? because we have all these great businesses
in Kenosha County, but we don't have population growth, you know, really through birth rates or
through net migration from other states or regions. Um, so do you have any thoughts at all on, you
know, what that demographic shift looks like in the Midwest as a whole? What you're seeing as some
good solutions to that?

>> Well, let's go to the first part. I don't know the solutions. This demographic challenge,
population challenge has characterized much of the Midwest. Population growth's been slower than the
rest of the country. And that's not a new phenomenon. Ever since they invented air conditioning,
there's been a drift to warmer sunb belt locations because they became livable in the in the
summertime. Wisconsin I think the unemployment rate in Wisconsin is like 3.4%. Okay. So

>> Wisconsin is kind of in labor shortage mode.

>> And if you talk to business people a lot of them say I can't find people. You know I it never
actually got better. you know, we were in a unbelievably tight labor market and it's still a really
tight labor market. Um, this I do think this you you you called the silver tsunami, the the
retirement of the baby boom and before the are they Gen Z, what whatever's the reflected of the baby
boom. Actually, it's even bigger than the baby boom, but there's a big there's going to be a big dip
for several decades in between. And while that happens, we got to we got to hope that the young
people aspire to careers and can replace the the folks that are retiring.

>> If you talk to the people that are retiring, they're less optimistic about it than the people
coming in. But before you get before you get too worried about that, the one thing they're expert at
at the University of Chicago is what do they call the oldest, right? Cuneaform writing, okay? Where
they like punch in the clay tablets. And I once talked to a to a guy who's like a world expert on he
he can read this thing and I said, "What do they write about?" Like what what is it? What did they
write? And evidently a lot of it was accounting. It was like you have 12 sheep and you know we we
owe you. [laughter] Some of it was kings saying how great they were. There's love poems and then
there's old people bitching about young people and they they [laughter] they abandon the traditions
and the things. So I think it's still going to be fine. I think it's still going to be fine. the
technology is changing and you know maybe one upside as if there is a rise of AI that enhances the
productivity of the people where they are in the jobs maybe that can span a little bit of the of the
demographic bust but that's a challenge facing the whole Midwest there's no there's no two ways
around it um and Most of the solutions move you into fiscal policy. The the Fed is kind of about the
next six weeks, the next six months, where are we in the business cycle? If it's like how do we
invest in our workforce training so that 20 years from now young people today are well set up,
that's kind of got to be the states, the Congress, and the businesses themselves. And in a way, I'm
encouraged by that because the success of the economy does not rely on some government bureaucrat
deciding who should be working in what job. Everybody has an incentive to find jobs and get the
training for something that's going to be a meaningful career. And the businesses want those people
and we got to kind of rely on some market mechanisms there. It's helpful. You know, when we talk to
our business community here, it's largely, you know, manufacturing, supply chain, logistics, which
I'm sure you're well aware of. You drive on that I94 corridor. You've seen all the development
that's happened over the last 20 or so years. And we really benefit from that. We've got a great
business community here. I know you talk a lot about, you know, the just the value of manufacturing
in our region. How do you rate kind of the success of our corridor and the health of it? And what do
you see as some of the pressures um, you know, on supply chain, logistics, and manufacturing right
now? Well, look, I rate us number one. We're the greatest of all the Fed districts, but uh and then
the numbers show it. I mean, we we have the most manufacturing. Now, that does mean that we are
exposed to geopolitics and worldwide shocks and stuff more so than anybody else. So, when the
tariffs came in,

>> there was an analysis done by Brookings. What states are the most exposed to tariffs? And
literally of the seven most exposed states in the nation, four of the seven were of our five states
because we got a lot of agriculture, we got a lot of manufacturing, the supply chain. To some
people, that's an inflation shock. These things affect just inflation. But, you know, if you're
manufacturing, that's a cost shock, too. and those supply side shocks which seem like they've gotten
more frequent and if we backed up 10 years 20 years and you were asking economists how important is
a supply chain most people wouldn't know they would know nothing about it and in a way that was the
one of the most important roots of the problem of team transitory when inflation started jumping
coming out of co the a lot of that I think was coming from the supply chain being as damaged as it
was and us just assuming ah it's just a supply chain they'll just fix it that takes longer that's
harder to do um so I think those supply chain aspects are the are they a threat I guess they're kind
of a threat the biggest vulnerability ility not not threat vulnerability is that the last six years
have taught us that those those things can go wrong in a way we didn't fully appreciate

>> and the focusing the supply chain to be global and single sourced because that's the cheapest it
is the cheapest but it also is the most vulnerable you when stuff goes wrong. So, I do think we're
going to have to still confront those those issues uh here in the Midwest, but we've also proved
pretty resourceful. I mean, if you look at businesses, I was down in in Indiana and the RV
manufacturers the they were affected by the same supply chain components that were affecting the
auto industry, but they were we're going to try a totally different way. We're going to find uh
we're going to find workers. We're going to find people. We're going to find different uh forms of
the supply chain which allow us to keep producing in a way that an industry as big as autos wasn't
able to.

>> Small versus medium versus large manufacturing firms.

>> There's a little bit of dynamic of that. It depends. It depends how big you are.

>> Makes sense. You know, and you talk about the supply chains being disrupted in a way that we
really couldn't have anticipated. And I think that leads to another good question which is I think a
lot of us in this room feel like we are living in unprecedented times. Every day you have to open
the New York Times or the Wall Street Journal, right?

>> You if if you have a one in aundred year flood every year, right?

>> It's like either stop calling it a one in a 100year flood or right

>> if each one is bigger than the last. Maybe it is a one in aundred year flood. I don't know

>> exactly. And it just seems like one thing after another with wars and tariffs and pandemics. you
name it. So, are we are we living in unprecedented times?

>> It feels like it. But look, that's our Midwestern sensibility. It's like, wow, this thing is
terrible.

>> Well, we got to get out and fix that. You know, it's like [laughter] if the toilet stopped up,
you're like, you got to fix it. Like, what are we going to do? Like, it's not pleasant, but that's
the job. And uh the look, the Midwest, if I had told I mean, just think just back up 10 years ago.
If I told you, hey, what is going to happen? We're going to have pandemics. We're going to have wars
and the price of oil is going to go to $100 a barrel. And [laughter] when like you can't buy
computer chips, you can't buy all of this stuff. You you would have thought, oh my god, what like
how will we how will we fix that? But we did. You know that and and it's it's disruptive in the
moment. Um, and and I don't mean to make light of the adjustment cost and the pain that every
business and every community has had to go through in these things. But ultimately, that adaptation
in the Midwest, we've been doing that for many, many decades. Um, if I'd have told you we're going
to have the biggest tariffs in 130 years and there would be a whole bunch of parts, components, and
supplies that wouldn't be exempted. Um, your then then it would be whatever April 3rd, 2024. I'm
calling the manufacturing folks throughout the district. Their hair is on fire. They're like, "If
these tariff rates come in, we're we're going to die." I mean, but this exceeds our entire margin
that they were able to figure out and adapt. And that's that's that's the way it it has to be.

>> And you know, one of the areas that have been really impacted by a lot of what you're talking
about is housing.

>> And that's something we're talking a lot about here, affordability. I know the Fed's doing some
work in that area. Can you talk a bit about that? Yes. Um, look at house prices are way up and when
economists talk about housing, we tend to talk about rent, not house sale price of housing because
part of when you buy a house, part of what you're getting is a is a asset. So, it's a form of
savings. The housing inflation part is ju is just a rent. That said, it's worth not there's been an
extreme divergence in the last couple of years between house price inflation and the inflation of
everything else. That's been extreme lately, but that's not new. It's actually been decades. This
been happening for decades. House price inflation was three and a half, four% a year. goods price
inflation has actually been mild deflation. So like minus half a percent per year over 20 30 40
years. I don't need to tell you that if you have a comp thing compounding plus three and a half
minus what is it? 4% per year for 30 years, the relative price of buying a house versus what you can
buy a TV for in Costco is going to be really different. And so when young people today note my
grandpa had one salary, never went to college, bought a big house, and I went to college, did all
the stuff, and I can't even afford a condo. They're not wrong. That's not that is the relative price
of housing's gone way up. And part of that just my inner economist is like if you want the price of
housing to slow down or go or even fall, you got to build more houses. Part part of it has been we
haven't built enough houses. But I got to tell you, this is pervasive all around the country. We
went to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, which is not a giant metro area. It's not a like land use regulation New
York City or something. I asked them in Cedar Rapids, what's the biggest challenge facing the
economy of Cedar Rapids? They said price of housing so high we can't get anybody to move here. And
so if in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, they're dealing with housing affordability issues. and in San Francisco
and Chicago and Milwaukee and Kenosha and every other place. I I we we do got to we we do need to
have a a rethink of of housing in the context of the price of everything else.

>> Absolutely. And that's something we're thinking a lot about here and trying to invest in.

>> So, I have a couple of questions that were submitted in advance, so I'll probably get to those,
but before we do that, I do want to take a little bit of a different task here. So, you know, in the
leadup to this conversation today, I did a lot of studying. I'm not going to lie. I treated this
like a grad school research project. I wanted to feel like I could know you a little bit and ask you
some good questions. And I every podcast I listen to, every interview I listen to with you really
reminded me of a pretty iconic quote from one of my favorite movies, which is Mean Girls. When Amy
[laughter] Polar, as Regina George's mom says, I'm not like a regular mom. I'm a cool mom. And I
just kept thinking like you're not like a regular banker. You're like a cool banker. Like you take
you take it. I'm gonna take it.

>> You take these really complicated topics and you bring levity to it. You bring humor to it. So I
have a couple fun questions for you if that's all right.

>> So you know obviously you have a really interesting job.

>> What have you found to be the most surprising thing about that job? And what is one of the
coolest things you've been able to do as a result of being in this position? The most surprising I
didn't know anything about the cash in the basement of the Fed [laughter] and I showed up and they
were like, "We got $ 35 billion. Do you want to see it?" I was like, "Hell yeah, I want to see it."
[laughter]

>> So I went down, I was like, "Wow." And the machines are like like counting. I was like, "This is
incredible." So that was the most surprising thing. And I still delight in taking people on tours.
They they had their annual evaluation report from the cash department and they were like we did 42
tours last year and I was like I think I like 28 of them were like my mom I gave my friends that
show that was the biggest surprise and that that was wonderful. Um the FOMC meeting itself, the
content of the meeting wasn't a surprise because it was it's monetary policy and if you're an
economist like you've been thinking about those issues, but the um the physical meeting room is also
like really pretty neat. you you this giant table and everybody sits around the table and they put
down the shades so they can't be spied on and you you're required to leave all your phones and
everything out of the room like it's a situation room and then people take the job extremely
seriously. They're going to go around the table and it's like J Pal what do you Day one is about the
economy day two is about the rates. Jay Pal, what do you think about the economy? He's gonna, you
know, and the you're assigned seat. So, I sit between the president of San Francisco and the
president of Minneapolis every time. And it's they're going to go around and it's it's really
fascinating. And if you're if you're an econ, you know, it's it's it's pretty pretty great. The
other thing a and the the the pleasure of being back in a if you talk to anybody at the Chicago Fed,
these people are believers. I mean, they they could be working in the private sector and making more
money than they make at the Chicago Fed. They've chosen to do this because they absolutely believe
in the mission and that's wonderful. And there's a lot of bureaucracy in the Fed as you as you might
like I can't I went into academics because most people go become professors because they can't deal
with having a boss and they can't deal with hierarchy and they can't deal you know they're my wife
one day was like you hate bureaucracy you hate authority you hate other things why did you take a
job at the Fed you know so there is a little bit of a there's a conference of presidents and we have
to work and come to consensus and it turns out consensus is really difficult [laughter] you know so
so that's that's been a the every FOMC meeting they put out a collection of the anecdotal
information that the banks have gathered and it's it's called the beige book and it you it used to
be a book that was beige that that was put out. Now it's a PDF file. I don't know. I don't
[laughter] And there was like a beige book working group and the beige book working group assigned
you like it it must be a two column format and the cover is too beige. It needs to be something else
on I those kinds of surprises big organizational surprises are are less fun.

>> I believe it. So, you know, when you've talked about those meetings in the past and just when you
talk about our region in general, you talk about conversations you have where you're promoting
what's great about our region to your peers. Um, can you talk a little bit about what you view as
what some of our greatest assets are and bonus points if it's anything from Kenosha County or
Wisconsin?

>> Um, I I'm not supposed to talk about what's what is said in the FOMC meetings. It's a secret
until five years and then they release the word for word transcript. So you can look those up. That
said, I may or may not have had one of my comments. I always try to bring the love and the bragging
for the seventh district. More than one has been about Wisconsin. I may or may not have mentioned
the Mars cheese castle, the cheese production in Wisconsin, the the awards won, etc. Um, so that'd
be that'd be one style. Sometimes there'll be things like the butterball hotline, you know, for the
turkeys. It turns out that's in suburban Chicago. the butterball hotline is and the former president
of the Chicago Fed's wife staffed the butterball hotline at Thanksgiving. So it was I was like you
know if we have a meeting that's on Thanksgiving or not on thing but around Thanksgiving there's
usually a November meeting. I'll highlight, you know, the butterball hotline or something like 90%
of the edible pumpkins in the United States are grown within a 100 mile radius of Peoria. Really?
Illinois. So, so I will say, you know,

>> there wouldn't even be a Halloween if it weren't for the seventh district. You know, it be stuff
like that.

>> It's a big statement. I like that.

>> All right. Well, looks like we've got maybe time for two more questions. So, I'll ask you one um
that was submitted by one of our audience members. So, obviously there's been some big news lately
with a new chairman of the Fed, with Kevin Worsh being the new chair of the Fed. What are your
impressions of him and where do you see him taking things?

>> I don't know. I I I'm not going to get myself in trouble. I tell you, I'm not I'm only supposed
to speak for what myself, not for what anybody else thinks or what the committee thinks or is going
to do. That said, I knew uh Chairman Walsh when he was just Kevin Wash, Governor Wash back in 2009,
101 when I was there at the beginning of the Obama administration. That's when he was on the Fed as
a governor and I worked closely with him. We would meet every month, the CEA and the Fed governors.
Um, so as I described, it felt like we went through a war together and we were in a foxhole and we
came from totally different backgrounds. He was from banking, I was an academic, he was a
Republican, I was a Democrat, but I got to see him in a very stressful moment. And he he's
levelheaded. And if he ca came to the job, I kept saying if he comes to the job with anything like
the seriousness that that he had then, it's going to be totally fine. Um, and so far that's what is
he he's he has expressed different ideas about communication, about forward guidance and the dot
plot and things like that. the balance sheet. It's, I think, healthy for institutions to go through
re-examinations periodically and a lot of times you can do that when a new person comes in as the
leader. Let's rethink those on on all counts. And so, I've been impressed. I mean, he hasn't been
there for very long.

>> I was prone to like him as he was coming in, like I said, because I went through the financial
crisis with him. He's announced a series of task forces with really pretty uh people of high stature
from outside the Fed to think through issues like inflation, AI and productivity, uh the balance
sheet, and I'm going to be interested to see what comes out of those because I I think it's a a
moment where we can revisit some of the things we took for granted.

>> That's great. Well, this has been an incredible conversation. Before we wrap up, I do have one
more question for you. Um, I'm just curious, you know, just as a final thought, what makes you most
optimistic about the future of the US economy?

>> I told you that the Fed is really about the kind of the short run in the business cycle. The
reasons for optimism of the economy are none of that. It's all the long. if you plot um I I got to
know the investor Warren Buffett a little bit back in 2008. He was Obama supporter and and uh and I
met him at at some events and if you ever meet Warren Buffett, he he has all these quizzes. He'll
like give you a little quiz and he asked me, "What do you think the Dow was in 1900?" Oh Jesus.

>> And I was like like well there was a Dow in 1900 like what? And the answer was 50.

>> The Dow was at 50 in 1900. And then he started saying imagine if you could go back to 1899 and
the Kenosha was here in 1899. Right. So, we're we're having the meeting in 1899,

>> and you bring the you bring the list of everything that will go wrong in the next 127 years. You
got a hell of a list. You know, you you got pandemics and world wars and hyperinflations, Justin
Bieber, like whatever whatever [laughter] whatever's going to go wrong, right? Whatever's going to
go wrong. And then imagine predicting then what is the Dow gonna be in 2026 and the people are going
to be like 90 you know maybe maybe 90 maybe be down to 40 you know it and it would h how do we get
you know 30 40 50,000 on the DAO the answer is because the innovative capacity of everyone in the
world, but especially the American people have proved totally unbounded. That's that's how we became
rich. And we're going to look back if you plot from 1789 for 250 years to the present. Wait, that's
not 250. It's 200 whatever. From 1776 to the to the present. the thing. Yeah, there's dips, there's
whatever, but it's basically a straight line up. And so, we're going to come back in 30 years, 40
years, we're going to remember, oh man, it was such a such a difficult time, but it's basically
going to be fine. I don't see how you can look at that graph of per capita income in the United
States for 250 years and not be a total optimist. And just go talk to some young people. Like, it's
g it's gonna work. We're gonna we're gonna have to figure it out. It's going to be uncomfortable,
but is it's going to work.

>> Well, definitely encouraging words and we appreciate that. Well, thank you so much. This has been
a fantastic conversation. Thank you for taking time with us. Thank you. And thank you all for being
here.

>> It's great.

>> Thank you. [applause]

>> That wraps up our program for today. Thank you all so much.