SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBjzS1rohlE
YOUTUBE: Bloomberg_Mar7

Kind: captions
Language: en
[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts,
radio, news.
&gt;&gt; Welcome back to Bloomberg radio and
television viewers and listeners around
the world. Our guest this morning now,
Austin Goulby, the president of the
Chicago Federal Reserve. And of course,
everybody wants to know what the Fed's
going to do. The Fed's worried about
jobs. And today, you had a number to
worry about.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a tough miss on the jobs
report today. You never want to
overindex on one month's report. And
I've been consistently saying, let's not
index on total payroll employment anyway
because a lot of stuff is going on with
immigration, with population growth.
That said, you saw the unemployment rate
inching up and it's one month is not a
trend, but it's not it's not a good
month. If you got several months like
that, you you you would be that'd be a
concerning spot for the labor market.
&gt;&gt; Well, what's your feeling about uh what
the open market committee is going to
do? I know you've been waiting to see
data. Chris Waller has been saying he's
in still in favor of cutting as is
Steven Myron. Where do you come down
now?
&gt;&gt; Well, uh as you know, and I appreciate
you asked it that way, I'm not allowed
to speak for the committee or for
anybody else, just myself. I've been
saying for some months that we've had
relative steadiness in the job market in
my view the strongest thing in the
economy is not AI data center investment
has been consumer spending being solid
in a kind of a broad-based way in the
economy but the inflation hasn't been
ideal. has at least stalled out at kind
of 3% and some of the latest measures
the inflation disturbingly high in
non-tariff categories like services.
I think we're still basically in that
same spot. Um I remain hopeful slash
expecting that conditions will improve
that we'll start to see some progress on
inflation head us back to 2% and by the
end of this year that we would be in a
situation that we could commence our
march back down to something like the
settling point which is below where we
are today. But each time we add an
uncertainty, I think the job market
characterized by low hiring
simultaneously
with low layoffs is a weird combination.
And when I talk to business people out
in the Midwest, they characterize this
because of the uncertainty. So as we get
more uncertainties,
I kind of think the time at which it
makes sense to act keeps getting pushed
back. I always say the the first rule of
the data dogs is to recognize there's a
time for sniffing and there's a time for
walking. And when there's uncertainty
and you and you you're getting
conflicting data points, that's the time
for sniffing.
I'm sure everyone out there is very glad
to hear you bring back the data dogs.
It's been a while since we've heard
that. Uh speaking of data dogs, uh one
dog that is barking very loudly right
now is oil prices, but the Fed tends to
look through that.
&gt;&gt; Yes. I mean, as with any supply side
shock,
it can lead you in a stagflationary
direction, which is to say the the
inflation side of the mandate getting
worse. At the same time, the employment
side of the mandate is getting worse.
And that's always the the worst case
scenario for the central bank because
there's not an obvious monetary policy
answer to a stagflationary shock.
Oil prices going up. We need to think
about is this a transitory thing that's
going to be temporary? Is this going to
be longived? How much h how big will it
be? How long will it last? and how is it
affecting the supply chain before we can
really say anything about it.
&gt;&gt; I would assume that that you would
assume that uh March is not going to see
March 18th is not going to see any kind
of rate move because there's still too
much uncertainty. Uh
do you think you would have enough data
by April to even make a decision one way
or another?
&gt;&gt; I I you you know that I don't like and
you you assume that I assume it is I I
don't know
&gt;&gt; what would a data
You know, I don't like tying our hands
ahead of the meetings. I want to hear
what my colleagues have to say. I want
to get as much information as possible,
especially at moments like this where
we're getting conflicting pieces of
information. But you've been there. It's
the biggest table that I've ever seen in
my life in that FOMC room. So, there's
plenty of room for everything to be on
the table at at every meeting. Um, so
I'm not I'm not going to rule anything
out.
&gt;&gt; We are uh from the data that we already
have and other Fed officials have said
this expecting a bad PCE number. Are you
still thinking of uh that PCE inflation
as residual tariff as opposed to uh an
underlying fundamental problem with
inflation?
&gt;&gt; Maybe a little of both. I mean that
that's why I've been uncertain and hi
highlighting the the inflation numbers.
There's been some encouraging signs in
inflation. Housing inflation has come
down a lot um and is likely to continue
to come down. We had the runup of goods
inflation that I think a lot of it is
tied to tariffs and we're still trying
to sort out is there more to come or is
that basically all there was with
tariffs and then it'll go away. But
there's also been a kind of a disturbing
persistence of services inflation which
I don't think you can attribute to
tariffs because the tariff content of
the services industry is not very high.
So
we'll have to see what the PCE number
says. The the open market committee has
said we watch PCE inflation. That's in
our framework review. That's the best
measure that we have of inflation, I
think. And if it comes in hot and it's
just goods, I would be more comfortable
saying that looks more like a tariff
driven thing. And that's the optimist
case. Maybe that that it would prove
transitory. If it comes in hot but it's
heavily on health care ser a bunch of
service sector industries that's a
different kettle of fish and that's a
little more that's feels a little more
persistent.
&gt;&gt; A sentiment question uh the sentiment
you get not just from CEOs but also from
just talking to regular people in your
district. You've got a situation where
people are seeing gas prices go up and
up and up. And now you have a really bad
employment report at a time when people
have already said they're worried about
losing their jobs. Are you concerned
that this could tip us into the
stagflationary environment? I I don't
want to say recession yet, but uh could
cause people to pull back.
&gt;&gt; It might cause people to pull back. the
the last five to eight years,
however, there's been a breaking of the
link between consumer sentiment and
actual consumer spending.
For some reasons we understand and some
reasons we don't understand. So if you
saw deterioration of consumer sentiment
as say gas prices go up, which
historically when gas prices go up,
consumer sentiment goes down. Um, if
that did not translate into a slowing of
consumer spending, I would be much less
nervous. As I've highlighted, in 2025,
the strongest thing that we have going
for us was not AI data center
investment. Yeah, that was great. But
the main thing driving growth was a
strong stable consumer broad-based
spending which drove growth in the
country. And that still continues
until it doesn't. So if sentiment
deteriorated
and there's a lot of concern as I'm
going around the Midwest and the Chicago
Fed district, a lot of expression of
concern about affordability, about costs
on the both the business side and the
consumer side. If people begin to be
nervous about their employment,
historically that tends to show up as
they're trying to build a little
precautionary
buffer.
&gt;&gt; U so the savings rate would start to
rise. That'd be that'd be a thing to
watch out for.
&gt;&gt; Let's end on a little bit of a positive
note here. Productivity down from the
third quarter, but still 2.8% for the
fourth quarter. Uh, that's got to be
something that makes you feel a little
bit better.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, that's all of our inner economists
are getting a little bit of a warm glow.
Productivity growth is what makes us
rich. Incomes can go up. Wages can grow
faster without inflation if productivity
growth is going to remain high like
this. Um, so I don't think that the
adoption of AI has been big enough to
explain that number completely. So I
think there actually might be even some
more running room to go with the
productivity.
&gt;&gt; Austin Goulby, thank you very much.
We'll have you back and have a name the
data dogs contest or something like
that. [laughter] President of the
Chicago Fed.