SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bIUk-c2vXmQ
YOUTUBE: CNBC_Mar23

Kind: captions
Language: en
Steve Leeman uh joins us now with a
special interview. Steve?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, Joe. I think it's a good time to
have Austin Goulby here, the Chicago Fed
president. Austin, thanks for joining us
this morning. And uh good to see you
again. You can see that headlines are
moving fastly and furiously. Um uh give
us an idea how a policy maker like
yourself views the incoming news and
what's happening right now in oil
markets, the outlook for inflation and
the effect on the policy outlook.
&gt;&gt; I mean, it's intense moment. We got a
lot a lot that hangs in the balance. As
you know through 2025
uh we experienced another inflationary
shock. People complaining about prices.
We stopped making progress on the
inflation front and at best it stalled
out and started inching its way back up.
So, we've been waiting for that to have
proved transitory to have gone away and
to pile a new inflation shock before on
top of this before that one has left the
scene.
This is going to be a tough moment.
Austin, I'll just tell you that minutes
before the president uh put out his
truth social, I was about to come on air
and talk about how the outlook for the
Fed funds rate in December had now
turned fairly decisively toward a rate
hike. uh in addition to the idea that
many of the Fed watchers who I read
every weekend and every day were kind of
capitulating in the sense that even in
the face of a weak job market, the
inflation story was going to be intense
enough that the Fed was going to have to
hike rates. Um h how was your view even
before this happened about the outlook
for policy?
Well, as you know, last year I was a
voter and I dissented uh at at the last
meeting of the year because we did not
have the data to show that inflation was
going away. The the argument that rates
should go down in the immediate term was
premised on that the inflation was going
to be transitory and go away. I remained
fairly optimistic that by the end of 26
rates could go down, but I wanted to see
proof that we're back on an inflation
headed to 2%. This definitely throws a
wrench into the plans. We we do need to
see progress. Steve, as you know, when
the when I'm thinking about what could
lead inflation to turn into something
more extended and not be temporary, one
of the key mechanisms is if everybody
starts expecting inflation is going to
remain high. And the there's a lot of
research work that documents that the
price of gasoline specifically has a
very high impact on individuals
expectations of what inflation is going
to be over the next year. So to have
already been operating at an inflation
rate that was uncomfortably high and
stuck well above the target and now to
add something that might be a lasting
gasoline price shock. I think this is as
I say an intense moment and we we h we
have to hope that this does not prove to
be a lasting impact on the economy.
Austin the question becomes how much
weakness in the job market are you
willing to look through in the fight
against inflation.
&gt;&gt; That's an interesting way to put it. I I
would point you to the framework when we
did the monetary policy framework. We
absolutely thought about the question,
what do we do if both sides of the feds
mandate start going wrong at the same
time? And we outlined a process that we
will follow and we voted unanimously in
favor of that which said we'll look at
which side is the deviation bigger and
how long do we expect each side is going
to take to get back to to something
acceptable. If you look at the
unemployment rate, it hasn't gone up
much. So the
the payroll job creation as an indicator
of labor market slack I think is a
little fraught at a moment when
population growth and immigration and
there a bunch of question marks about uh
labor supply. So I prefer looking at
rates like the unemployment rate, the
layoff rate, the hiring rate, the
vacancy rate. Most of those have shown
stability and are at levels that are
closer to full employment than we are on
the target on the inflation side. So at
the moment I I think the inflation's got
to be a little ahead of the employment.
&gt;&gt; Hey Austin, Steve asked you already and
showed us earlier this whipssaw reaction
at the Fed futures. you know, suddenly
thinking that the odds were far more
likely that we would see you all raise
rates in December rather than cut and
that turned around really rapidly.
Anyway, just erratic behavior, but it's
everybody else just trying to figure out
what you and your colleagues are
actually going to do. Does your own mind
follow this whipssaw pattern of like,
whoa, we're going to have to hike rates
or, oh my gosh, we're definitely
cutting. Does does does your mindset
follow that or is it a much slower?
&gt;&gt; No, that's not my mindset.
&gt;&gt; Look, Becky, as I always say, the the
central bank's jobs that be the steady
hand. If you look at that kind of
whipssaw pattern and just ask people,
what do you think the next rate change
will be? It's constantly up, down, over,
and around. And if you look at the
actual rate, it's much smoother. I it's
the most important thing is to figure
out the through line of what is
happening and that is what makes this a
fraught but intense moment is nobody can
tell us uh what's going to happen on the
on the ground in the in the conflict in
the Middle East and how long that lasts
if they are able to resolve these issues
and there's not a permanent uh lasting
impact on gasoline and energy prices.
That would be a far more favorable
outcome, of course, than if this is
extended. And if we start to see that
drifting into inflation expectations,
you you would see more of this rising
long-term interest rates as people are
trying to compensate for that.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. You know, Austin, it's almost like
a roar shock test. And we had Waller on.
When was that, Steve? Was that Friday?
&gt;&gt; Friday.
&gt;&gt; God, it's only been uh I don't know.
seems like uh
&gt;&gt; there's a some people and they're really
smart people they always come up with
this that inflation looks like it's it's
anchored they look at different things
spreads and things like that Austin and
you know tariffs are oneoff what's
happening now in the straight that's a
oneoff but overall inflation seems like
it's anchored and then if if the labor
market isn't really sizzling it seems
like you're not going to get like a wage
uh pressure in inflation component. Is
it anchored? And and what do what do
inflation hawks what what do they have
that that that maybe someone who's not
as concerned has? What are they looking
at that that makes them think it's
really ready to to be back to 4%.
I I don't totally know. And you know, I
I don't want to violate the rules. I'm
not supposed to say what's in anybody
else's mind on the FOMC or what the
committee is going to do. Just myself,
I've been optimistic over the longer
term and a little more pessimistic on
inflation in the shorter term because it
seemed to me that there were a number of
things that could make this a repeat of
the team transitory
mistake where everyone assumed a supply
chain will just fix itself real quick
and the inflation will go away.
If so far inflation expectations do seem
anchored, but it's a little bit of the
sunburn theory of inflation
expectations. Once they start to go
wrong, you're going to wish you put on
sunscreen, it's a little hard to to put
the cat, you know, once once a cat is
out of the bag, it's it's hard to to get
it.
&gt;&gt; Wasn't there more? There was there was
some uh
you know there was a throwing a lot of
money at a supply constrained world back
then too. I mean I know you're
&gt;&gt; it's different. I think you're right.
It's it's certainly not a twin. It's at
most a cousin of of that previous issue.
I would say at the times when I've been
the most pessimistic have been looking
at the components of inflation that
aren't tariff related like services that
we got several months in a row of
inflated services inflation which
couldn't be coming from tariffs and
historically doesn't go away quickly.
Those are the times that made me
nervous. And the more that it was
concentrated in goods and looked like it
was a tariff thing that might be one and
done, the better I felt.
&gt;&gt; With this cousins,
&gt;&gt; the thing that's worrisome is
&gt;&gt; cousins get married in a lot.
&gt;&gt; Gasoline scares people.
&gt;&gt; Austin, don't they, Steve? Do you?
&gt;&gt; I wouldn't know about that, Joe. I find
it interesting that you do
&gt;&gt; like fourth, right?
&gt;&gt; For Ohio.
&gt;&gt; I'm not saying anything about any state.
But what I what I ask Austin about is
Austin, we're looking at now a 30%
probability of a hike by December and
we're trying to look further down the
road to kind of smooth out some of the
oscillations in the near term here. Um,
and that's been as high as 60%. So, I'm
just wondering, is is a hike something
that is in the arsenal in your mind of
some of some way that the Fed might end
up addressing this surge in oil prices
and other inflation that may come from
&gt;&gt; Well, look, Steve, you know, I always
say if if you look in that room, it's a
gigantic table. Biggest table I've ever
seen in my life. So, everything is
always on the table. We could be back to
the environment with multiple rate cuts
for the year if we see be if if
inflation behaves. We could see
circumstances I I could see
circumstances where we would need to
raise rates I if it was going a
different way and inflation was getting
out of control.
The the key is historically oil shocks
have been a stagflationary
direction shock. That is make employment
worse while at the same time they're
making inflation worse. And that's the
that's the worst kind of shock. That's
the most uncomfortable thing for a
central bank to have to face because
there's not an obvious playbook. It
absolutely depends how how it plays out
and whether it's going to last or not
last.
I you know the work that I've done over
the history of these things Austin is
that there used to be a rule on this
which is you addressed the inflation and
that came from the 80s where uh
inflation was in double digits and
really out of control but since then
it's been very sort of I guess you call
it an economic state dependent which
translates into what the heck is going
on around at the time. Um, and to answer
Joe's question, what the hawks, I think,
have been saying is you look through
tariff inflation, you've abided
inflation above target for a long time,
and that maybe you've reached the end of
your rope on that, and it's time to
think about addressing the oil shock.
&gt;&gt; I I think I think I agree, but it it
wasn't a question. I mean the the thing
from the 80s be a little careful with
the intuition that comes from the 70s
and the 80s because the US was not
nearly as big a producer of energy as it
is today. So on the output side, if the
price of oil goes way up and stays up,
there will be at least some part of the
US economy that benefits from that.
You'll probably start to see a
significant amount of of investment that
would be coming from fracking and energy
production. Whereas in the 70s, it was
more like a purely cost shock. um that
was was having a worse impact on
employment relative to inflation than it
w than it would today.
&gt;&gt; Austin, you have one of the great
research departments in the Federal
Reserve system.
&gt;&gt; So, I wonder if you would share with us
what what have you asked your
researchers to look at relative to
what's going on right now so we can
start thinking about what you're
thinking about. Well, I'm trying to
think through a this issue of what will
be the impact if we had an extended
impact of higher oil prices. How long
does it take before that starts showing
up in greater investment that on the
employment and output side of our
mandate? Is this a thing that if it's a
let's call it a short-lived conflict in
the Middle East and prices go back down,
might we be stuck in the in the
situation that consumers respond
immediately that gas is 4.89 a gallon in
Chicago and that affects consumption.
But the investment part takes a few
months because they want to establish
that the before they go out and and do
the fracking investments and restart the
wells, they want to be sure that the the
price is going to remain high. We're
trying to think through those dynamics
and what's the overall magnitude output
effect of higher oil prices that might
balance off against the inflation part.
Austin, we really appreciate you coming
and puzzling through this with us. I
think every investor, every analyst,
everybody watching is trying to figure
out very much the kind of thing,
struggling with the same issues that you
are. Austin Goulby, thanks very much.
Great to see you