SOURCE: https://www.bostonfed.org/news-and-events/speeches/2026/remarks-leahy-memorial-conference.aspx

Remarks at the Conference in Memory  
of  John Leahy 

At the University of Michigan 
Conference sponsored by the University of Michigan’s 
Department of Economics and Ford School of Public Policy, 
and the New York University Department of Economics 

Susan M. Collins 
President & Chief Executive Officer 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 

Friday, October 9, 2026 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 

The views expressed today are my own, not necessarily those of my colleagues on 
the Federal Reserve Board of Governors or the Federal Open Market Committee 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Good afternoon, and thank you Kathryn.   

  While I remain deeply saddened by the tragic loss of John Leahy, I am honored to be here 

today, with all of you, to celebrate John’s life and his many, many contributions – to our lives, to 

economics, and to the field of monetary policy. And it is always gratifying to be back at the Ford 

School, and the University of Michigan. 

I’d like to begin my remarks with a few memories of John, before turning to some of the 

ways his work, as a macro theorist, has been quite impactful for thinking about monetary policy. I 

then look forward to the conversation with Kathryn and Allen. But first – even though I will not speak 

about economic conditions, my outlook, or current policy perspectives, I’ll still give my standard 

disclaimer: The views I express do not necessarily reflect those of the other Fed policymakers at 

the Board of Governors or the Reserve Banks. 

I met John in September 1990, when he first joined the Harvard economics faculty, and we 

were colleagues for two years. I remember thinking that he was the definition of “bright-eyed and 

bushy tailed,” which was quite refreshing. I had joined the Harvard economics faculty six years 

earlier – and had just wrapped up a year in Washington at the Council of Economic Advisors (CEA) 

as the international macro senior staff economist. And John wanted to talk about…everything: how 

to navigate being a junior faculty member at Harvard, why the CEA had championed an exchange 

rate stabilization fund for formerly planned economies, where to get the best food in Harvard 

Square, how the (S,s) models he worked on with Andrew Caplin were relevant for my work on 

realignments in the European Monetary System, and much more. He was great to talk economics 

with – whether about teaching or research projects. (And it was fun to have another colleague who 

looked as young as I did.) 

  Fast forward 25 years, to 2015. I was dean of the Ford School here at Michigan, working 

with the Department of Economics to fill the Allen Sinai Professorship of Macroeconomics and 

Public Policy. Allen will talk about his vision for the Sinai Chair in a moment, but I’ll just say that 

John was the perfect match for the Chair. His addition was exciting for both the Ford School and the 

economics department, and the Chair was the perfect way to recruit John to Michigan – something 

we had aspired to do for some time. It was also wonderful to welcome Aditi and their family to the 

university and Ann Arbor community.  

John was an exemplary colleague – not only a gifted teacher, thoughtful mentor, and 

impactful researcher, but also a senior faculty member who would “step up” to help make the 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
institution a better place for students, faculty, and staff. John was a very special human being – 

kind, thoughtful, and generous – with a fabulous sense of humor. It was great to have him on board. 

I’ll now turn to how John Leahy’s academic research has been influential for the field of 

monetary policy, and valuable to me as a Fed policymaker.   

  As you all know, John’s research was primarily in macroeconomic theory – we heard about 

many dimensions of this in earlier sessions today. However, I’ll note that the connections between 

highly technical work and policy are not always evident. As many of you know, John’s academic 

roots were inter-disciplinary. His Williams B.A. combined History and German with Math. And he got 

an M.S. in Public Policy from Georgetown before heading to Princeton for his Ph.D. in economics. 

So yes, he was a deep, mathematical thinker. But the subjects that excited him intellectually were 

much broader than that. In my experience, he saw this as a two-way street. For instance, he 

leveraged insights from psychology to better understand expectations formation. He also cared 

about applications of his research insights – including for monetary policy.   

  And John was a great communicator, adept at explaining complex ideas in accessible ways 

– to those in his field, and beyond. A case in point is his 2016 “Sinai Lecture” on Wishful Thinking 

and Expectations, delivered in this venue as part of his professorship installation. His ability to 

communicate broadly – and willingness to take the time to do so, is part of how and why John’s 

work was broadly influential. And I’ll note that he was very connected to the Federal Reserve 

System throughout his career – co-authoring with Fed economists, and spending time at several 

Reserve Banks.  

  More generally, John’s research was influential because it helped shape how people in the 

economics profession, especially macroeconomists, think about key economic phenomena. He 

made fundamental contributions to several distinct but intertwined areas of macroeconomics. I will 

highlight three that are especially salient for monetary policy. 

  First, much of John’s early work (with Andrew Caplin) focused on modeling price stickiness, 

and the implications of this stickiness for the real economy. Leveraging (S,s) pricing models that 

provide a rich framework for modeling such rigidities, John and Andrew showed why monetary 

policy has effects on the real economy – and how these effects may vary with economic conditions. 

This research stream also helps explain why monetary policy works with lags – the so-called time 

dimension of monetary policy transmission. In later work, John and Mark Gertler provided a 

tractable (S,s)-based framework for modeling the Phillips Curve, which laid the foundations for 

important modern approaches used – including by major central banks – to quantify how monetary 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
policy affects macroeconomic outcomes. One important idea that subsequently grew from this work 

was that the Phillips curve could be nonlinear. This has been a subject of much discussion in policy 

circles, most recently following the post-pandemic inflation surge, and was featured prominently in 

the Federal Reserve’s most recent framework review. 

  Second, John and co-authors made substantial contributions to explaining how monetary 

policy actually works – the channels of transmission. One important contribution was to explore 

(with Simon Gilchrist) the links between asset prices and monetary policy, considering questions of 

great relevance for policymakers – such as whether and how monetary policy should react to 

shocks that impact financial markets. In recent work with Aditi Thapar, John examined another 

potential determinant of the transmission – the demographics underlying the economy – finding that 

the impact of monetary policy increases with the size of the middle-aged population. 

  Third, in the most recent part of his career, John made major contributions to the burgeoning 

field of rational inattention – how people pay attention, and what information they pay attention to. 

While much of his work focused on micro foundations, this research helped lay the foundation for 

the movement away from models with rational expectations towards more realistic macroeconomic 

models, implications of which have made their way into policy discussions. In fact, the interplay with 

alternate forms of expectations was an important consideration in the Federal Reserve’s 

deliberations about flexible average inflation targeting, which was adopted in 2020. In particular, as 

I’ve already mentioned, John had a deep interest in how people form expectations – and in ways 

these may be biased – emphasizing that people’s expectations may be overly “optimistic” relative to 

a typical rational expectations approach.   

  Pulling these themes together, one central message of John’s work has been that monetary 

transmission depends on microeconomic heterogeneity and frictions that earlier representative 

agent models miss. 

  Of course, the real world never works as simply as even quite complex models suggest. And 

as a policymaker, I am keenly aware that actual policy decisions are almost never easy or clean – 

the real world is much more complicated and nuanced than our simple models can describe or 

capture. This is something John was highly attuned to, eager to discuss, and always trying to better 

understand.   

  Having John join the Chicago Fed as a research director would have brought an 

exceptionally broad and eclectic thinker to the policy table. I am sure John’s intellectual 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
contributions would have been greatly appreciated by the members of the Open Market Committee 

as it grapples with complex economic phenomena. 

I’ll end my remarks there, and look forward to the additional discussion with Kathryn and 

Allen. But let me say, once again, that I am very grateful for the opportunity to be here, to celebrate 

John’s work and life with great appreciation. John is, and will be, deeply missed. 

5