SOURCE: https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/files/BeigeBook_20260114.pdf

Overall Economic Activity

Overall economic activity increased at a slight to modest pace in eight of the twelve Federal

Reserve Districts, with three Districts reporting no change and one reporting a modest decline.

This marks an improvement over the last three report cycles where a majority of Districts reported

little change. Most banks reported slight to modest growth in consumer spending this cycle,

largely attributed to the holiday shopping season. Several Districts also noted that spending was

stronger among higher-income consumers with increased spending on luxury goods, travel,

tourism, and experiential activities. Meanwhile, low to moderate income consumers were seen to

be increasingly price sensitive and hesitant to spend on nonessential goods and services. Auto

sales were little changed to down across most Districts. Manufacturing activity varied with five

Districts reporting growth and six reporting contraction. Nonfinancial services demand was gener-

ally seen as steady to increasing somewhat. Banking conditions were generally reported as stable

or improving, with some increased demand coming from credit cards, home equity loans, and com-

mercial lending. Residential real estate sales, construction, and lending activity softened in the

majority of Districts that report on the sector. Agriculture conditions were largely unchanged with

only Atlanta reporting a modest decline due to weaker demand for exported commodities. Energy

demand and production was flat to down slightly. Outlooks for future activity were mildly optimistic

with most expecting slight to modest growth in coming months.

Labor Markets

Employment was mostly unchanged in the most recent period, with eight of the twelve Districts

reporting no changes in hiring. Multiple Districts reported an increase in the usage of temporary

workers, with one contact reporting this allows them “to stay flexible in uncertain times.” When

firms were hiring, it was mostly to backfill vacancies rather than create new positions. Firms

reported continued challenges finding skilled labor, particularly in engineering, health care, and

other trades. Several reports mentioned that fewer workers were switching jobs. Multiple contacts

reported exploring AI implementation primarily for productivity enhancement and potential future

workforce management. AI’s current impact on employment was limited, with more significant

effects anticipated in the coming years rather than immediately. Wages grew at a moderate pace,

with multiple contacts reporting that wage growth had returned to “normal” levels.

Note: This report was prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond based on information collected on or before
January 5, 2026. This document summarizes comments received from contacts outside the Federal Reserve System and
is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

2

The Beige Book

Prices

Prices grew at a moderate rate across a large majority of Districts, with only two Districts reporting

slight price growth. Cost pressures due to tariffs were a consistent theme across all Districts. Sev-

eral contacts that initially absorbed tariff-related costs were beginning to pass them on to cus-

tomers as pre-tariff inventories became depleted or as pressures to preserve margins grew more

acute. But contacts in a few industries—like retail and restaurants—were reluctant to pass costs

along to price-sensitive customers. Energy and insurance costs continued to be a significant strain

on margins. Looking ahead, firms expect some moderation in price growth, but anticipated prices

to remain elevated as they work through increased costs.