SOURCE: https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/files/BeigeBook_20260415.pdf

Overall Economic Activity

Overall economic activity increased at a slight to modest pace in eight of the twelve Federal

Reserve Districts, while two Districts reported little change and two Districts reported slight to

modest declines. The conflict in the Middle East was cited as a major source of uncertainty that

complicated decision-making around hiring, pricing, and capital investment, with many firms

adopting a wait-and-see posture. Manufacturing activity rose slightly to moderately in most

Districts. Banking sector activity was generally steady with loan demand stable to up moderately.

On balance, consumer spending increased slightly despite harsh winter weather in some regions

and higher fuel prices. Many Districts continued to report signs of consumer financial strain,

increased price sensitivity, and rising demand at food banks and other social service organiza-

tions, while spending among higher-income consumers was resilient. Housing market activity soft-

ened across several Districts as heightened uncertainty and rising mortgage rates dampened

buyer demand. Commercial real estate markets improved, with strength in industrial properties,

especially data center projects. Office markets saw solid demand for Class A space but weaker

demand for lower-tier properties. Energy activity was up slightly as oil prices rose, though many

producers remained cautious about increasing drilling due to uncertainty about the persistence of

higher prices. Agricultural activity was mixed, and several Districts reported that rising crop prices

helped offset steep price increases of fertilizer and fuel. Business outlooks varied amid wide-

spread uncertainty about future conditions.

Labor Markets

On balance, employment was steady to up slightly during this reporting period, though one District

noted a slight decline. Most Districts described labor demand as stable, with low turnover,

minimal layoffs, and hiring mostly for replacement. Several Districts noted increased demand for

temporary or contract workers, as firms remained cautious about committing to permanent hires.

Many Districts reported that labor availability had improved, although difficulty finding some skilled

workers, especially in the skilled trades, persisted. While most Districts indicated that AI had not

yet significantly impacted overall staffing levels, some noted that AI-driven productivity improve-

ments had enabled many firms to delay or reduce hiring. Wages generally continued to rise at a

Note: This report was prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York based on information collected on or before
April 6, 2026. This document summarizes comments received from contacts outside the Federal Reserve System and is
not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

2

The Beige Book

modest to moderate pace. Some Districts noted continued wage pressures for some roles in

health care and the skilled trades, though overall wage competition remained muted.

Prices

Price growth mostly remained moderate overall, with the vast majority of Districts reporting mod-

erate increases and others pointing to modest growth. Generally, input cost increases outpaced

selling price growth, compressing margins. Energy and fuel costs rose sharply in all Districts,

attributed to the Middle East conflict, leading to higher freight and shipping costs and higher

prices for plastics, fertilizers, and other petroleum-based products. Input cost pressures beyond

energy-related increases were also widespread. Several Districts reported rising prices for metals

due to tariffs, such as steel, copper, and aluminum. Technology costs rose for both hardware and

software. Insurance premiums and health care costs continued to climb.